SUSE(r) LINUX Enterprise Desktop (SLED) 10 (Spring 2007)
Novell(r) Software License Agreement

PLEASE READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY.  BY INSTALLING OR OTHERWISE
USING THE SOFTWARE (INCLUDING ITS COMPONENTS), YOU AGREE TO THE
TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT.  IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS,
DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL OR USE THE SOFTWARE AND, IF APPLICABLE,
RETURN THE ENTIRE UNUSED PACKAGE TO THE RESELLER WITH YOUR
RECEIPT FOR A REFUND.  THE SOFTWARE MAY NOT BE SOLD, TRANSFERRED,
OR FURTHER DISTRIBUTED WITHOUT PRIOR WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM
NOVELL.

RIGHTS AND LICENSES

This Novell Software License Agreement ("Agreement") is a legal
agreement between You (an entity or a person) and Novell, Inc.
("Novell") with respect to the software product identified in the
title of this Agreement, media (if any) and accompanying
documentation (collectively the "Software").

The Software is a collective work of Novell.  You must acquire a
license for each installation of the Software and for each
additional copy (or partial copy) of the Software stored or
loaded in memory or virtual memory beyond the initial copy
necessary for execution of the Software installed on the
hardware.


The Software is a modular operating system.  Most of the
components are open source packages, developed independently, and
accompanied by separate license terms.  Your license rights with
respect to individual components accompanied by separate license
terms are defined by those terms; nothing in this Agreement shall
restrict, limit, or otherwise affect any rights or obligations
You may have, or conditions to which You may be subject, under
such license terms.

While the license terms for a component may authorize You to
distribute the component, You may not use any Novell marks (e.g.,
SUSE and SUSE LINUX) in distributing the component, whether or
not the component contains Novell marks.

OTHER LICENSE TERMS AND RESTRICTIONS

The Software is protected by the copyright laws and treaties of
the United States ("U.S.") and other countries and is subject to
the terms of this Agreement.  The Software is licensed to You,
not sold.

The Software may be bundled with other software programs
("Bundled  Programs"). Your license rights with respect to
Bundled Programs accompanied by separate license terms are
defined by those terms; nothing in this Agreement shall restrict,
limit, or otherwise affect any rights or obligations You may
have, or conditions to which You may be subject, under such
license terms.

Novell reserves all rights not expressly granted to You.  You may
not: (1) reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble the Software
except and only to the extent it is expressly permitted by
applicable law or the license terms accompanying a component of
the Software; or (2) transfer the Software or Your license rights
under this Agreement, in whole or in part.

MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT

Your rights with respect to updates, patches, or other materials
received under a subscription to a Novell maintenance program for
the Software are defined by the relevant maintenance program
terms.

Novell has no obligation under this Agreement to provide
maintenance or support for the Software.  Depending on how You
acquired the Software, You may have also acquired a maintenance
subscription for the Software.  For more information on Novell's
current maintenance and support offerings, see
http://www.novell.com/support.

OWNERSHIP RIGHTS

No title to or ownership of the Software is transferred to You.
Novell and/or its licensors owns and retains all title and
ownership of all intellectual property rights in the Software,
including any adaptations or copies.  You acquire only a license
to use the Software.

LIMITED WARRANTY

For ninety (90) days from Your date of purchase, Novell warrants
that (1) any media on which the Software is delivered is free
from physical defects; and (2) the Software will substantially
conform to the documentation accompanying the Software.  If the
defective items are returned to Novell or if You report the
nonconformity to Novell within ninety (90) days from the date of
purchase, Novell will at its sole discretion either resolve the
nonconformity or refund the license fees You paid for the
Software.  Any misuse or unauthorized modification of the
Software voids this warranty.  THE FOREGOING WARRANTY IS YOUR
SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY AND IS IN LIEU OF ALL OTHER WARRANTIES,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED.  (The foregoing warranty does not apply to
Software provided free of charge.  SUCH SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS
IS" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.)

THE SOFTWARE IS NOT DESIGNED, MANUFACTURED OR INTENDED FOR USE OR
DISTRIBUTION  WITH ON-LINE CONTROL EQUIPMENT IN HAZARDOUS
ENVIRONMENTS REQUIRING FAIL-SAFE PERFORMANCE, SUCH AS IN THE
OPERATION OF NUCLEAR FACILITIES, AIRCRAFT NAVIGATION,
COMMUNICATION, OR CONTROL SYSTEMS, DIRECT LIFE SUPPORT MACHINES,
WEAPONS SYSTEMS, OR OTHER USES IN WHICH FAILURE OF THE SOFTWARE
COULD LEAD DIRECTLY TO DEATH, PERSONAL INJURY, OR SEVERE PHYSICAL
OR ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE.

THE SOFTWARE IS ONLY COMPATIBLE WITH CERTAIN COMPUTERS AND
OPERATING SYSTEMS.  THE SOFTWARE IS NOT WARRANTED FOR
NON-COMPATIBLE SYSTEMS.  Call Novell or Your dealer for
information about compatibility.

Non-Novell Products.  The Software may include or be bundled with
hardware or other software programs licensed or sold by a
licensor other than Novell.  NOVELL DOES NOT WARRANT NON-NOVELL
PRODUCTS.  ANY SUCH PRODUCTS ARE PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS.
ANY WARRANTY SERVICE FOR NON-NOVELL PRODUCTS IS PROVIDED BY THE
PRODUCT LICENSOR IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE APPLICABLE LICENSOR
WARRANTY.

EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE RESTRICTED BY LAW, NOVELL DISCLAIMS AND
EXCLUDES ANY AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES INCLUDING ANY WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  NOVELL MAKES NO WARRANTY, REPRESENTATION OR
PROMISE NOT EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS LIMITED WARRANTY.  NOVELL
DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE SOFTWARE WILL SATISFY YOUR REQUIREMENTS
OR THAT THE OPERATION OF THE SOFTWARE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED.
Some jurisdictions do not allow certain disclaimers and
limitations of warranties, so portions of the above limitations
may not apply to You.  This limited warranty gives You specific
rights and You may also have other rights which vary from state
to state.

LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

(a) Consequential Losses.  NEITHER NOVELL NOR ANY OF ITS
LICENSORS, SUBSIDIARIES, OR EMPLOYEES WILL IN ANY CASE BE LIABLE
FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, INDIRECT, TORT,
ECONOMIC OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR
INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOSS
OF PROFITS, BUSINESS OR DATA, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF THOSE DAMAGES.

(b) Direct Damages.  IN NO EVENT WILL NOVELL'S AGGREGATE
LIABILITY FOR DIRECT DAMAGES TO PROPERTY OR PERSON (WHETHER IN
ONE INSTANCE OR A SERIES OF INSTANCES) EXCEED 1.25 TIMES THE
AMOUNT PAID BY YOU FOR THE SOFTWARE OUT OF WHICH SUCH CLAIM AROSE
[OR $50 (U.S.) IF YOU RECEIVED THE SOFTWARE FREE OF CHARGE].  The
above exclusions and limitations will not apply to claims
relating to death or personal injury.  In those jurisdictions
that do not allow the exclusion or limitation of damages,
Novell's liability shall be limited or excluded to the maximum
extent allowed within those jurisdictions.

GENERAL TERMS

Term.  This Agreement becomes effective on the date You legally
acquire the Software and will automatically terminate if You
breach any of its terms.  Upon termination of this Agreement, You
must destroy the original and all copies of the Software or
return them to Novell and delete the Software from Your systems.

Benchmark Testing.  This benchmark testing restriction applies to
You if You are a software vendor or if You are performing testing
on the Software at the direction of or on behalf of a software
vendor.  You may not, without Novell's prior written consent not
to be unreasonably withheld, publish or disclose to any third
party the results of any benchmark test of the Software.  If You
are a vendor of products that are functionally similar to or
compete with the Software ("Similar Products"), or are acting on
behalf of such a vendor, and You publish or disclose benchmark
information on the Software in violation of this restriction,
then notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Similar
Product's end user license agreement, and in addition to any
other remedies Novell may have, Novell shall have the right to
perform benchmark testing on Similar Products and to disclose and
publish that benchmark information and You hereby represent that
You have authority to grant such right to Novell.

Transfer.  This Agreement may not be transferred or assigned
without the prior written approval of Novell.

Law and Jurisdiction.  This Agreement is governed by the laws of
the State of Utah, U.S. Any action at law relating to this
Agreement may only be brought before the courts of competent
jurisdiction of the State of Utah.  If, however, Your country of
principal residence is a member state of the European Union or
the European Free Trade Association, this Agreement is governed
by the laws of that country, and any action at law may only be
brought before a court of competent jurisdiction of that country.

Entire Agreement.  This Agreement and the Upgrade/Additive
Agreement (if applicable) sets forth the entire understanding and
agreement between You and Novell and may be amended only in a
writing signed by both parties. NO LICENSOR, DISTRIBUTOR, DEALER,
RETAILER, RESELLER, SALES PERSON, OR EMPLOYEE IS AUTHORIZED TO
MODIFY THIS AGREEMENT OR TO MAKE ANY REPRESENTATION OR PROMISE
THAT IS DIFFERENT FROM, OR IN ADDITION TO, THE TERMS OF THIS
AGREEMENT.

Waiver.  No waiver of any right under this Agreement will be
effective unless in writing, signed by a duly authorized
representative of the party to be bound.  No waiver of any past
or present right arising from any breach or failure to perform
will be deemed to be a waiver of any future right arising under
this Agreement.

Severability. If any provision in this Agreement is invalid or
unenforceable, that provision will be construed, limited,
modified or, if necessary, severed, to the extent necessary, to
eliminate its invalidity or unenforceability, and the other
provisions of this Agreement will remain unaffected.

Export Compliance.  Any person or entity exporting or
re-exporting Novell products directly or indirectly and via any
means, including electronic transfer, is wholly responsible for
doing so in accordance with the U.S. Export Administration
Regulations and the laws of host countries.  Novell assumes no
responsibility or liability for your failure to obtain any
necessary export approvals.  Approvals are dependent upon an
item's technical characteristics, the destination, end-use and
end-user, as well as other activities of the end user.
Specifically, no Novell product may be exported to embargoed or
otherwise restricted countries or end users.  Please consult the
Bureau of Industry and Security web page and other sources before
exporting Novell products from the U.S. and familiarize yourself
with the laws of destination countries before re-exporting Novell
products.  This provision shall survive the expiration or earlier
termination of this Agreement.  Please refer to the export matrix
for Novell products for more information on exporting Novell
Software.  You can download a copy from
http://www.novell.com/info/exports/ or obtain a copy from your
local Novell office.

U.S. Government Restricted Rights.  Use, duplication, or
disclosure by the U.S.  Government is subject to the restrictions
in FAR 52.227-14 (June 1987) Alternate III (June 1987), FAR
52.227-19 (June 1987), or DFARS 252.227-7013 (b)(3) (Nov 1995),
or applicable successor clauses.  Contractor/Manufacturer is
Novell, Inc., 1800 South Novell Place, Provo, Utah 84606.

Other.  The application of the United Nations Convention of
Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly
excluded.

Copyright 1993, 2000-2006 Novell, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
(031507) 
Novell and SUSE are registered trademarks, and the SUSE
logo is a trademark, of Novell, Inc.  in the United States and
other countries.  
Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds. 

############################################## ##
## ## Third-party EULAs                        ## ##
## ##############################################

ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED End User License Agreement Please
return any accompanying registration form to receive registration
benefits.

NOTICE TO USER:  PLEASE READ THIS CONTRACT CAREFULLY.  BY USING
ALL OR ANY PORTION OF THE SOFTWARE YOU ACCEPT ALL THE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING, IN PARTICULAR THE
LIMITATIONS ON: USE CONTAINED IN SECTION 2; TRANSFERABILITY IN
SECTION 4; WARRANTY IN SECTION 6 AND 7; AND LIABILITY IN SECTION
8. YOU AGREE THAT THIS AGREEMENT IS ENFORCEABLE LIKE ANY WRITTEN
NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT SIGNED BY YOU.  IF YOU DO NOT AGREE, DO NOT
USE THIS SOFTWARE.  IF YOU ACQUIRED THE SOFTWARE ON TANGIBLE
MEDIA (e.g. CD) WITHOUT AN OPPORTUNITY TO REVIEW THIS LICENSE AND
YOU DO NOT ACCEPT THIS AGREEMENT, YOU MAY OBTAIN A REFUND OF THE
AMOUNT YOU ORIGINALLY PAID IF YOU: (A) DO NOT USE THE SOFTWARE
AND (B) RETURN IT, WITH PROOF OF PAYMENT, TO THE LOCATION FROM
WHICH IT WAS OBTAINED WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF THE PURCHASE
DATE.

1.  Definitions.  "Software" means (a) all of the contents of the
files, disk(s), CD-ROM(s) or other media with which this
Agreement is provided, including but not limited to (i) Adobe or
third party computer information or software; (ii) digital
images, stock photographs, clip art, sounds or other artistic
works ("Stock Files"); (iii) related explanatory written
materials or files ("Documentation"); and (iv) fonts; and (b)
upgrades, modified versions, updates, additions, and copies of
the Software, if any, licensed to you by Adobe (collectively,
"Updates").  "Use" or "Using" means to access, install, download,
copy or otherwise benefit from using the functionality of the
Software in accordance with the Documentation.  "Permitted
Number" means one (1) unless otherwise indicated under a valid
license (e.g. volume license) granted by Adobe.  "Computer" means
an electronic device that accepts information in digital or
similar form and manipulates it for a specific result based on a
sequence of instructions.  "Adobe" means Adobe Systems
Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, 345 Park Avenue, San Jose,
California 95110, if subsection 10(a) of this Agreement applies;
otherwise it means Adobe Systems Benelux BV, Europlaza,
Hoogoorddreef 54a, 1101 BE Amsterdam ZO, the Netherlands, a
company organized under the laws of the Netherlands and an
affiliate and licensee of Adobe Systems Incorporated. 

2. Software License.  As long as you comply with the terms of
this End User License Agreement (the "Agreement"), Adobe grants
to you a non-exclusive license to Use the Software for the
purposes described in the Documentation.  Some third party
materials included in the Software may be subject to other terms
and conditions, which are typically found in a "Read Me" file
located near such materials.  2.1.  General Use.  You may install
and Use a copy of the Software on your compatible computer, up to
the Permitted Number of computers; or 2.2.  Server Use.  You may
install one copy of the Software on your computer file server for
the purpose of downloading and installing the Software onto other
computers within your internal network up to the Permitted Number
or you may install one copy of the Software on a computer file
server within your internal network for the sole and exclusive
purpose of using the Software through commands, data or
instructions (e.g. scripts) from an unlimited number of computers
on your internal network.  No other network use is permitted,
including but not limited to, using the Software either directly
or through commands, data or instructions from or to a computer
not part of your internal network, for internet or web hosting
services or by any user not licensed to use this copy of the
Software through a valid license from Adobe; and  2.3.  Backup
Copy.  You may make one backup copy of the Software, provided
your backup copy is not installed or used on any computer. You
may not transfer the rights to a backup copy unless you transfer
all rights in the Software as provided under Section 4.  2.4.
Home Use.  You, as the primary user of the computer on which the
Software is installed, may also install the Software on one of
your home computers. However, the Software may not be used on
your home computer at the same time the Software on the primary
computer is being used.  2.5.  Stock Files.  Unless stated
otherwise in the "Read-Me" files associated with the Stock Files,
which may include specific rights and restrictions with respect
to such materials, you may display, modify, reproduce and
distribute any of the Stock Files included with the Software.
However, you may not distribute the Stock Files on a stand-alone
basis, i.e., in circumstances in which the Stock Files constitute
the primary value of the product being distributed.  Stock Files
may not be used in the production of libelous, defamatory,
fraudulent, lewd, obscene or pornographic material or any
material that infringes upon any third party intellectual
property rights or in any otherwise illegal manner.  You may not
claim any trademark rights in the Stock Files or derivative works
thereof.  2.6. Font Software. If the Software includes font
software -  2.6.1. You may Use the font software as described
above on the Permitted Number of computers and output such font
software on any output devices connected to such computers.
2.6.2. If the Permitted Number of computers is five or fewer, you
may download the font software to the memory (hard disk or RAM)
of one output device connected to at least one of such computers
for the purpose of having such font software remain resident in
the output device, and of one additional such output device for
every multiple of five represented by the Permitted Number of
computers.2.6.3. You may take a copy of the font(s) you have used
for a particular file to a commercial printer or other service
bureau, and such service bureau may Use the font(s) to process
your file, provided such service bureau has a valid license to
Use that particular font software.   2.6.4. You may convert and
install the font software into another format for use in other
environments, subject to the following conditions: A computer on
which the converted font software is used or installed shall be
considered as one of your Permitted Number of computers. Use of
the font software you have converted shall be pursuant to all the
terms and conditions of this Agreement. Such converted font
software may be used only for your own customary internal
business or personal use and may not be distributed or
transferred for any purpose, except in accordance with the
Transfer section below.  2.6.5 You may embed the font software,
or outlines of the font software, into your electronic documents
to the extent that the font vendor copyright owner allows for
such embedding. The fonts contained in this package may contain
both Adobe and non-Adobe owned fonts. You may fully embed any
font owned by Adobe. Refer to the font sample sheet or font
information file to determine font ownership.  See the
Documentation for location and information on how to access these
sheets and files.  2.7  To the extent that the Software includes
Adobe Acrobat Reader software, (i) you may customize the
installer for such software in accordance with the restrictions
found at www.adobe.com (e.g., installation of additional plug-in
and help files); however, you may not otherwise alter or modify
the installer program or create a new installer for any of such
software, (ii) such software is licensed and distributed by Adobe
for viewing, distributing and sharing PDF files, and (iii) you
are not authorized to use any plug-in or enhancement that permits
you to save modifications to a PDF file with such software;
however, such use is authorized with Adobe Acrobat, Adobe Acrobat
Business Tools, and other current and future Adobe products that
feature the creation or manipulation of PDF files.  For
information on how to distribute Adobe Acrobat Reader and Adobe
SVG Viewer please refer to the sections entitled "How to
Distribute Acrobat Reader" and "How to Distribute SVG Viewer" at
www.adobe.com. 

3. Intellectual Property Rights. The Software and any copies that
you are authorized by Adobe to make are the intellectual property
of and are owned by Adobe Systems Incorporated and its suppliers.
The structure, organization and code of the Software are the
valuable trade secrets and confidential information of Adobe
Systems Incorporated and its suppliers. The Software is protected
by copyright, including without limitation by United States
Copyright Law, international treaty provisions and applicable
laws in the country in which it is being used.  You may not copy
the Software, except as set forth in Section 2 ("Software
License"). Any copies that you are permitted to make pursuant to
this Agreement must contain the same copyright and other
proprietary notices that appear on or in the Software. Except for
font software converted to other formats as permitted in section
2.6.4, you agree not to modify, adapt or translate the Software.
You also agree not to reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble or
otherwise attempt to discover the source code of the Software
except to the extent you may be expressly permitted to decompile
under applicable law, it is essential to do so in order to
achieve operability of the Software with another software
program, and you have first requested Adobe to provide the
information necessary to achieve such operability and Adobe has
not made such information available. Adobe has the right to
impose reasonable conditions and to request a reasonable fee
before providing such information. Any information supplied by
Adobe or obtained by you, as permitted hereunder, may only be
used by you for the purpose described herein and may not be
disclosed to any third party or used to create any software which
is substantially similar to the expression of the Software.
Requests for information should be directed to the Adobe Customer
Support Department. Trademarks shall be used in accordance with
accepted trademark practice, including identification of
trademarks owners' names. Trademarks can only be used to identify
printed output produced by the Software and such use of any
trademark does not give you any rights of ownership in that
trademark. Except as expressly stated above, this Agreement does
not grant you any intellectual property rights in the Software.

4. Transfer. You may not, rent, lease, sublicense or authorize
all or any portion of the Software to be copied onto another
users computer except as may be expressly permitted herein. You
may, however, transfer all your rights to Use the Software to
another person or legal entity provided that: (a) you also
transfer each this Agreement, the Software and all other software
or hardware bundled or pre- installed with the Software,
including all copies, Updates and prior versions, and all copies
of font software converted into other formats, to such person or
entity;  (b) you retain no copies, including backups and copies
stored on a computer; and (c) the receiving party accepts the
terms and conditions of this Agreement and any other terms and
conditions upon which you legally purchased a license to the
Software. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you may not transfer
education, pre-release, or not for resale copies of the Software. 

5. Multiple Environment Software / Multiple Language Software /
Dual Media Software / Multiple Copies/ Bundles / Updates. If the
Software supports multiple platforms or languages, if you receive
the Software on multiple media, if you otherwise receive multiple
copies of the Software, or if you received the Software bundled
with other software, the total number of your computers on which
all versions of the Software are installed may not exceed the
Permitted Number.  You may not, rent, lease, sublicense, lend or
transfer any versions or copies of such Software you do not Use.
If the Software is an Update to a previous version of the
Software, you must possess a valid license to such previous
version in order to Use the Update.  You may continue to Use the
previous version of the Software on your computer after you
receive the Update to assist you in the transition to the Update,
provided that: the Update and the previous version are installed
on the same computer; the previous version or copies thereof are
not transferred to another party or computer unless all copies of
the Update are also transferred to such party or computer; and
you acknowledge that any obligation Adobe may have to support the
previous version of the Software may be ended upon availability
of the Update.

6.  NO WARRANTY.  The Software is being delivered to you "AS IS"
and Adobe makes no warranty as to its use or performance.  ADOBE
AND ITS SUPPLIERS DO NOT AND CANNOT WARRANT THE PERFORMANCE OR
RESULTS YOU MAY OBTAIN BY USING THE SOFTWARE.  EXCEPT FOR ANY
WARRANTY, CONDITION, REPRESENTATION OR TERM TO THE EXTENT TO
WHICH THE SAME CANNOT OR MAY NOT BE EXCLUDED OR LIMITED BY LAW
APPLICABLE TO YOU IN YOUR JURISDICTION, ADOBE AND ITS SUPPLIERS
MAKE NO WARRANTIES CONDITIONS, REPRESENTATIONS, OR TERMS (EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WHETHER BY STATUTE, COMMON LAW, CUSTOM, USAGE OR
OTHERWISE) AS TO ANY MATTER INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION
NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS, MERCHANTABILITY,
INTEGRATION, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR
PURPOSE. 

7.  Pre-release Product Additional Terms.  If the product you
have received with this license is pre-commercial release or beta
Software ("Pre-release Software"), then the following Section
applies.  To the extent that any provision in this Section is in
conflict with any other term or condition in this Agreement, this
Section shall supercede such other term(s) and condition(s) with
respect to the Pre- Release Software, but only to the extent
necessary to resolve the conflict. You acknowledge that the
Software is a pre-release version, does not represent final
product from Adobe, and may contain bugs, errors and other
problems that could cause system or other failures and data loss.
Consequently, the Pre- Release Software is provided to you
"AS-IS", and Adobe disclaims any warranty or liability
obligations to you of any kind. WHERE LEGALLY LIABILITY CANNOT BE
EXCLUDED FOR PRE-RELEASE SOFTWARE, BUT IT MAY BE LIMITED, ADOBE'S
LIABILITY AND THAT OF ITS SUPPLIERS SHALL BE LIMITED TO THE SUM
OF FIFTY DOLLARS (U.S. $50) IN TOTAL. You acknowledge that Adobe
has not promised or guaranteed to you that Pre-release Software
will be announced or made available to anyone in the future, that
Adobe has no express or implied obligation to you to announce or
introduce the Pre-release Software and that Adobe may not
introduce a product similar to or compatible with the Pre-release
Software.  Accordingly, you acknowledge that any research or
development that you perform regarding the Pre-release Software
or any product associated with the Pre-release Software is done
entirely at your own risk. During the term of this Agreement, if
requested by Adobe, you will provide feedback to Adobe regarding
testing and use of the Pre-release Software, including error or
bug reports. If you have been provided the Pre-release Software
pursuant to a separate written agreement, such as the Adobe
Systems Incorporated Serial Agreement for Unreleased Products,
your use of the Software is also governed by such agreement. You
agree that you may not and certify that you will not sublicense,
lease, loan, rent, or transfer the Pre-release Software. Upon
receipt of a later unreleased version of the Pre-release Software
or release by Adobe of a publicly released commercial version of
the Software, whether as a stand-alone product or as part of a
larger product, you agree to return or destroy all earlier
Pre-release Software received from Adobe and to abide by the
terms of the End User License Agreement for any such later
versions of the Pre-release Software. Notwithstanding anything in
this Section to the contrary, if you are located outside the
United States of America, you agree that you will return or
destroy all unreleased versions of the Pre- Release Software
within thirty (30) days of the completion of your testing of the
Software when such date is earlier than the date for Adobe's
first commercial shipment of the publicly released (commercial)
Software.

8. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. IN NO EVENT WILL ADOBE OR ITS
SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ANY DAMAGES, CLAIMS OR COSTS
WHATSOEVER OR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, OR
ANY LOST PROFITS OR LOST SAVINGS, EVEN IF AN ADOBE REPRESENTATIVE
HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSS, DAMAGES, CLAIMS
OR COSTS OR FOR ANY CLAIM BY ANY THIRD PARTY.  THE FOREGOING
LIMITATIONS AND EXCLUSIONS APPLY TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
APPLICABLE LAW IN YOUR JURISDICTION.  ADOBE'S AGGREGATE
LIABILITY AND THAT OF ITS SUPPLIERS  UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE LIMITED TO THE AMOUNT PAID FOR THE
SOFTWARE, IF ANY. Nothing contained in this Agreement limits
Adobe's liability to you in the event of death or personal injury
resulting from Adobe's negligence or for the tort of deceit
(fraud).  Adobe is acting on behalf of its suppliers for the
purpose of disclaiming, excluding and/or limiting obligations,
warranties and liability as provided in this Agreement, but in no
other respects and for no other purpose. For further information,
please see the jurisdiction specific information at the end of
this Agreement, if any, or contact Adobe's Customer Support
Department.

9. Export Rules. You agree that the Software will not be shipped,
transferred or exported into any country or used in any manner
prohibited by the United States Export Administration Act or any
other export laws, restrictions or regulations (collectively the
"Export Laws"). In addition, if the Software is identified as
export controlled items under the Export Laws, you represent and
warrant that you are not a citizen, or otherwise located within,
an embargoed nation (including without limitation Iran, Iraq,
Syria, Sudan, Libya, Cuba, North Korea, and Serbia) and that you
are not otherwise prohibited under the Export Laws from receiving
the Software.   All rights to Use the Software are granted on
condition that such rights are forfeited if you fail to comply
with the terms of this Agreement.

10. Governing Law. This Agreement will be governed by and
construed in accordance with the substantive laws in force: (a)
in the State of California, if a license to the Software is
purchased when you are in the United States, Canada, or Mexico;
or (b) in Japan, if a license to the Software is purchased when
you are in Japan, China, Korea, or other Southeast Asian country
where all official languages are written in either an ideographic
script (e.g., hanzi, kanji, or hanja), and/or other script based
upon or similar in structure to an ideographic script, such as
hangul or kana; or (c) the Netherlands, if a license to the
Software is purchased when you are in any other jurisdiction not
described above. The respective courts of Santa Clara County,
California when California law applies, Tokyo District Court in
Japan, when Japanese law applies, and the courts of Amsterdam,
the Netherlands, when the law of the Netherlands applies, shall
each have non-exclusive jurisdiction over all disputes relating
to this Agreement. This Agreement will not be governed by the
conflict of law rules of any jurisdiction or the United Nations
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods, the
application of which is expressly excluded. 

11. General Provisions. If any part of this Agreement is found
void and unenforceable, it will not affect the validity of the
balance of the Agreement, which shall remain valid and
enforceable according to its terms.  This Agreement shall not
prejudice the statutory rights of any party dealing as a
consumer. This Agreement may only be modified by a writing signed
by an authorized officer of Adobe.  Updates may be licensed to
you by Adobe with additional or different terms. This is the
entire agreement between Adobe and you relating to the Software
and it supersedes any prior representations, discussions,
undertakings, communications or advertising relating to the
Software.  

12. Notice to U.S. Government End Users. The Software and
Documentation are "Commercial Items," as that term is defined at
48 C.F.R.  Section 2.101, consisting of "Commercial Computer 
Software" and "Commercial Computer Software Documentation," as such
terms are used in 48 C.F.R. Section 12.212 or 48 C.F.R. Section 
227.7202, as applicable. Consistent with 48 C.F.R. Section 12.212 
or 48 C.F.R. Sections 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4, as applicable, 
the Commercial Computer Software and Commercial Computer Software
Documentation are being licensed to U.S. Government end users (a)
only as Commercial Items and (b) with only those rights as are
granted to all other end users pursuant to the terms and
conditions herein. Unpublished-rights reserved under the
copyright laws of the United States. Adobe Systems Incorporated,
345 Park Avenue, San Jose, CA 95110-2704, USA. For U.S.
Government End Users, Adobe agrees to comply with all applicable
equal opportunity laws including, if appropriate, the provisions
of Executive Order 11246, as amended, Section 402 of the Vietnam
Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974 (38 USC 4212),
and Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended,
and the regulations at 41 CFR Parts 60-1 through 60-60, 60-250,
and 60-741.  The affirmative action clause and regulations
contained in the preceding sentence shall be incorporated by
reference in this Agreement.

13. Compliance with Licenses. If you are a business or
organization, you agree that upon request from Adobe or Adobe's
authorized representative, you will within thirty (30) days fully
document and certify that use of any and all Adobe Software at
the time of the request is in conformity with your valid licenses
from Adobe.

If you have any questions regarding this Agreement or if you wish
to request any information from Adobe please use the address and
contact information included with this product to contact the
Adobe office serving your jurisdiction.  

Adobe, Acrobat, Acrobat Reader, and After Effects are either
registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated
in the United States and/or other countries.

##############################################

END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR CITRIX SYSTEMS, INC.

This is a legal agreement ("AGREEMENT") between you, the Licensed
User or representative of the Licensed User and Citrix Systems,
Inc., or Citrix Systems International GmbH.  Citrix Systems,
Inc., a Delaware corporation, markets and supports this product
or feature release (both hereinafter "PRODUCT") in the Americas.
Citrix Systems International GmbH, a Swiss company wholly owned
by Citrix Systems, Inc., markets and supports this PRODUCT in
Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and the Pacific.  Your
location of receipt of this PRODUCT determines which is the
licensing entity hereunder (the applicable entity is hereinafter
referred to as "CITRIX"). BY OPENING THE SEALED DISK PACKAGE OR
BY INDICATING YOUR ACCEPTANCE AS IDENTIFIED BELOW, YOU ARE
AGREEING TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO
NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT, PROMPTLY RETURN THE
UNOPENED DISK PACKAGE AND THE ACCOMPANYING ITEMS (INCLUDING
WRITTEN MATERIALS AND BINDERS OR OTHER CONTAINERS) TO THE PLACE
WHERE YOU OBTAINED THEM FOR A FULL REFUND.

1.  GRANT OF LICENSE.  This CITRIX product contains software that
provides services on a computer called a server (''Server
Software''), and software that  allows a computer to access or
utilize the services provided by the Server Software (''Client
Software''). CITRIX grants to you the following non-exclusive
rights to the Client Software and the Server Software and
accompanying  documentation (collectively called the
''SOFTWARE''): 

a) Installation and Transfer.  You may install one copy of the
Server Software on  a single computer (the computer running the
Server Software shall be referred to  as the ''Server''). The CD
on which the Server Software resides may contain  several copies
of the Server Software, each of which is compatible with a
different  microprocessor architecture. You may install the
Server Software for use with only  one of those architectures at
any given time. You may transfer the Server  Software to another
computer, provided that it is removed from the computer from
which it is transferred. The Client Software diskettes with the
"Unlimited Copies  Allowed Under User License Agreement" legend
may be installed on an unlimited  number of computers, provided
that these computers are used to access the  Server. All other
Client Software diskettes can be installed and used on a single
computer only. However, the number of concurrent logins will be
limited pursuant  to Section 1.b. 

b) Use of the Server Software.  You may use one copy of the
Server Software at  any time on one Server, which may be
connected at any point in time to an  unlimited number of
computers operating remotely or on one or more networks.  The
Server Software supports usage by more than one user at a time.
However, it  may only be used to support the number of user
logins you are entitled to based  on your purchase of CITRIX
licenses for the basic system and any additional  CITRIX User
License Packs which increase the number of allowable logins.
System management and other service features of the SOFTWARE may
only be  used to support the same SOFTWARE. Any attempt to defeat
or circumvent these  software-enforced login limitations is a
breach of this AGREEMENT. You may  make one (1) copy of the
SOFTWARE in machine readable form solely for back- up purposes,
provided that you reproduce all proprietary notices on the copy.

c) Use of the Client Software.  You may use the Client Software
to access the  Server.  

d) Not For Resale and Developers' Edition Software. If this
SOFTWARE is  labeled ''Not For Resale'' or ''NFR,'' your license
only permits use for  demonstration, test, or evaluation
purposes.  If this SOFTWARE is labeled  "Developers' Edition,"
your license only permits use for developing your own product(s)
to operate in conjunction with the SOFTWARE.  You receive no
license  hereunder to incorporate the SOFTWARE or any portion
thereof in your own  product(s). 

e) Other.  Notice to Users - You shall inform all users of the
SOFTWARE of the  terms and conditions of this AGREEMENT. 

2. SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS.  If the licensed user has purchased a
subscription to  obtain "Updates" (as defined below) for the
SOFTWARE (the "Subscription"), the  following terms and
conditions shall also apply.  If the licensed user has paid the
appropriate subscription fee and registered its Subscription with
CITRIX, the  licensed user's Subscription shall begin on the
effective date of this AGREEMENT  and shall continue for a term
of one year thereafter unless terminated sooner (the
"Subscription Term").  During the Subscription Term, CITRIX may,
from time to  time, generally make Updates available for
licensing to the public. For the  purposes of this AGREEMENT, an
Update shall mean a generally available release of the SOFTWARE
which is designated by CITRIX in its sole discretion as  an
increase in any digit of the SOFTWARE version number from that
version  number of the SOFTWARE originally licensed by the
licensed user pursuant to  this AGREEMENT.  Upon general
availability of such Update during the Subscription Term, CITRIX
shall provide the licensed user with one (1) copy of  such UPDATE
for each copy of the SOFTWARE originally licensed by the
licensed user pursuant to this AGREEMENT, without additional
charge.   Any such  Updates so delivered to the licensed user
shall be considered SOFTWARE under  the terms of this AGREEMENT. 

The licensed user acknowledges that CITRIX may develop and market
new or  different computer programs which use portions of the
SOFTWARE and which  perform all or part of the functions
performed by the SOFTWARE.  Nothing  contained in this AGREEMENT
shall give the licensed user any rights with respect to such new
or different computer programs.  The licensed user also
acknowledges that CITRIX is not obligated under this AGREEMENT to
generally  make any Updates available to the public.  All
deliveries of Updates shall be  F.O.B. Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
CITRIX shall have no responsibility under this  AGREEMENT for the
installation of any Updates. 

3. DESCRIPTION OF OTHER RIGHTS AND LIMITATIONS.  For all SOFTWARE
-  You may not rent or lease the SOFTWARE, but you may transfer
the SOFTWARE and accompanying written materials on a permanent
basis, provided you retain no  copies and the recipient agrees to
the terms of this AGREEMENT. You may not  modify, translate,
reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble, create derivative
works based on, or copy (except for the back-up copy of the
SOFTWARE) the  SOFTWARE, except to the extent such foregoing
restriction is expressly prohibited by applicable law. You may
not remove any proprietary notices, labels, or marks on  the
SOFTWARE and accompanying documentation. 

YOU MAY NOT USE, COPY, MODIFY, OR TRANSFER THE SOFTWARE OR  ANY
COPY IN WHOLE OR IN PART, OR GRANT ANY RIGHTS IN THE  SOFTWARE OR
ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTATION, EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN THIS
LICENSE. ALL RIGHTS NOT EXPRESSLY  GRANTED ARE RESERVED BY CITRIX
OR ITS SUPPLIERS. 

Limited Warranty and Disclaimer.  CITRIX warrants that, for a
period of ninety  (90) days from the date of delivery of the
SOFTWARE to you as evidenced by a  copy of your receipt, the
media on which the SOFTWARE is furnished under  normal use will
be free from defects in materials and workmanship and that the
CITRIX product will perform substantially in accordance with the
CITRIX product documentation published by CITRIX and included
with the enclosed sealed media  package. CITRIX and its
suppliers' entire liability and your exclusive remedy under  this
warranty (which is subject to you returning the SOFTWARE to
CITRIX or an  authorized reseller with a copy of your receipt)
will be, at CITRIX' option, to replace the media or to refund the
purchase price and terminate this  AGREEMENT. 

EXCEPT FOR THE ABOVE EXPRESS LIMITED WARRANTIES, CITRIX AND  ITS
SUPPLIERS MAKE AND YOU RECEIVE NO WARRANTIES OR  CONDITIONS,
EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY, OR OTHERWISE, AND CITRIX AND ITS
SUPPLIERS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ANY CONDITIONS OF  QUALITY AND
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT  LIMITATION, ANY
WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, NONINFRINGEMENT, OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. YOU ASSUME THE  RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE
SELECTION OF THE PRODUCTS AND  HARDWARE TO ACHIEVE YOUR INTENDED
RESULTS, AND FOR THE  INSTALLATION OF, USE OF, AND RESULTS
OBTAINED FROM THE PRODUCTS. CITRIX does not warrant that the
SOFTWARE will be uninterrupted  or error free. 

SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED
WARRANTIES SO THE ABOVE EXCLUSIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. THIS
WARRANTY GIVES YOU SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS. YOU MAY ALSO HAVE
OTHER RIGHTS WHICH VARY FROM JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION. 

Proprietary Rights.  This license is not a sale. Title and
copyrights to the  SOFTWARE, accompanying documentation and any
copies made by you remain  with CITRIX or its suppliers. 

Limitation of Liability.  IN NO EVENT WILL CITRIX OR ITS
SUPPLIERS BE  LIABLE FOR ANY LOSS OF DATA, LOSS OF INCOME, LOSS
OF  OPPORTUNITY OR PROFITS, COST OF RECOVERY OR ANY OTHER
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR INDIRECT DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, OR THE USE OF THE
SOFTWARE, REFERENCE MATERIALS OR ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTATION,
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF  LIABILITY. THIS LIMITATION
WILL APPLY EVEN IF CITRIX, ITS SUPPLIERS  OR AUTHORIZED
DISTRIBUTORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE LIABILITY OF  CITRIX EXCEED THE
AMOUNT PAID FOR THE LICENSED SOFTWARE AT ISSUE.  YOU ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT THE LICENSE FEE REFLECTS THIS  ALLOCATION OF RISK. SOME
JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE  LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION OF
LIABILITY FOR INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE
LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION  MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. 

Export Restriction.  You agree that you will not export or
re-export the  SOFTWARE in any form without the appropriate
United States and foreign  government licenses. Your failure to
comply with this provision is a material breach of this
AGREEMENT. 

Termination.  This AGREEMENT is effective until terminated. You
may terminate  this AGREEMENT at any time by removing from your
computer and destroying all  copies of the SOFTWARE.
Unauthorized copying of the SOFTWARE or the accompanying
documentation or otherwise failing to comply with the terms and
conditions of this AGREEMENT will result in automatic termination
of this license  and will make available to CITRIX other legal
remedies.  Upon termination of this  AGREEMENT, the license
granted herein will terminate and you must immediately  destroy
the SOFTWARE and accompanying documentation, and all back-up
copies thereof. 

Government End-Users. If you are a U.S.  Government agency, in
accordance  with Section 12.212 of the Federal Acquisition
Regulation (48 CFR 12.212), you  hereby acknowledge that use,
duplication and disclosure of the SOFTWARE by  the U.S.
Government or any of its agencies is governed by, and subject to,
all of  the terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations set
forth in this AGREEMENT. In  the event that, for any reason,
Section 12.212 is not applicable, you hereby  acknowledge that
use, duplication and disclosure of the SOFTWARE by U.S.
Government agencies is subject to the Commercial Computer
Software Restricted  Rights clause at 48 CFR Section
52.227-19(c)(1) and (2), or the Rights in  Technical Data and
Computer Software clause at DFARS 252.227-7013, as  applicable.
Manufacturer is Citrix Systems, Inc., 851 West Cypress Creek
Road,  Fort Lauderdale, Florida, 33309. 

If licensor is Citrix Systems, Inc., this AGREEMENT will be
governed by the laws  of the State of Florida without reference
to conflict of laws principles and excluding  the United Nations
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods,  and
in any dispute arising out of this AGREEMENT, you consent to the
exclusive  personal jurisdiction and venue in the State and
Federal courts within Broward  County, Florida. If licensor is
Citrix Systems International GmbH, this AGREEMENT will be
governed by the laws of Switzerland without reference to  the
conflict of laws principles, and excluding the United Nations
Convention on  Contracts for the International Sale of Goods, and
in any dispute arising out of this  Citrix MetaFrame Server for
UNIX Operating Systems License Agreement 7 AGREEMENT, you consent 
to the exclusive personal jurisdiction and venue of the competent
courts in the Canton of Zurich. 

Should you have any questions concerning this AGREEMENT, or wish
to contact  licensor for any reason, please write to licensor at
the following address: Citrix  Systems, Inc., Customer Service,
851 West Cypress Creek Road, Ft. Lauderdale,  Florida 33309; or
Citrix Systems International GmbH, Rheinweg 9, CH-8200
Schaffhausen, Switzerland. 

Should you have any questions concerning this AGREEMENT, or if
you desire to  contact Citrix Systems, Inc. for any reason,
please write: Citrix Systems, Inc.,  Customer Service, 6400 NW
6th Way, Fort Lauderdale, FL  33309.  Citrix is a  registered
trademark of Citrix Systems, Inc.  UNIX is a registered trademark
of  The Open Group.

##############################################
ADOBE Flash Player

ADOBE(r) SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT

NOTICE TO USER: PLEASE READ THIS CONTRACT CAREFULLY. BY USING,
COPYING OR DISTRIBUTING ALL OR ANY PORTION OF THE ADOBE SOFTWARE
("SOFTWARE") YOU ACCEPT ALL THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS
AGREEMENT, INCLUDING, IN PARTICULAR THE LIMITATIONS ON: USE
CONTAINED IN SECTION 2; TRANSFERABILITY IN SECTION 4; WARRANTY IN
SECTION 7; AND LIABILITY IN SECTION 8. YOU AGREE THAT THIS
AGREEMENT IS ENFORCEABLE LIKE ANY WRITTEN NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT
SIGNED BY YOU. THIS AGREEMENT IS ENFORCEABLE AGAINST YOU AND ANY
LEGAL ENTITY THAT OBTAINED THE SOFTWARE AND ON WHOSE BEHALF IT IS
USED. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE, DO NOT USE THIS SOFTWARE.

Adobe and its suppliers own all intellectual property in the
Software. Adobe permits you to Use the Software only in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Use of some third
party materials included in the Software may be subject to other
terms and conditions typically found in a separate license
agreement, a “Read Me” file located near such materials or in the
“Third Party Software Notices and/or Additional Terms and
Conditions” found at www.adobe.com/go/thirdparty/

1. Definitions. "Software" means (a) all of the contents of
the files (provided either by electronic download, on physical
media or any other method of distribution), disk(s), CD-ROM(s)
or other media with which this Agreement is provided,
including but not limited to (i) Adobe or third party computer
information or software, including the Adobe Reader(r) ("Adobe
Reader"), Adobe Flash(r) Player, Shockwave(r) Player and
Authorware(r) Player (collectively, the Flash, Shockwave and
Authorware players, are the "Web Players"); (ii) related
explanatory written materials or files ("Documentation"); and
(iii) fonts; and (b) upgrades, modified versions, updates,
additions, and copies of the Software, if any, licensed to you
by Adobe (collectively, "Updates"). "Use" or "Using" means to
access, install, download, copy, or otherwise benefit from
using the functionality of the Software in accordance with the
Documentation. "Permitted Number" means one (1) unless
otherwise indicated under a valid license (e.g., volume
license) granted by Adobe. "Computer" means an electronic
device that accepts information in digital or similar form and
manipulates it for a specific result based on a sequence of
instructions. "Adobe" means Adobe Systems Incorporated, a
Delaware corporation, 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California
95110, if subsection 9(a) of this Agreement applies; otherwise
it means Adobe Systems Software Ireland Limited, Unit 3100,
Lake Drive, City West Campus, Saggart D24, Republic of
Ireland, a company organized under the laws of Ireland and an
affiliate and licensee of Adobe Systems Incorporated.

2. Software License. If you obtained the Software from Adobe
or one of its authorized licensees, and subject to your
compliance with the terms of this agreement (this
"Agreement"), including the restrictions in Setion 3, Adobe
grants to you a non-exclusive license to Use the Software for
the purposes described in the Documentation as follows.
2.1 General Use. You may install and Use a copy of the
Software on your compatible Computer, up to the Permitted
Number of computers. The Software may not be shared,
installed or used concurrently on different
computers. See Section 3 for important restrictions on
the Use of Adobe Reader and Web Players.
2.2 Server Use and Distribution.
2.2.1 You may install one copy of the Adobe Reader on a
computer file server within your internal network for
the sole and exclusive purpose of (a) using the
Software (from an unlimited number of client computers
on your internal network) via (i) the Network File
System (NFS) for UNIX versions of the Software or (ii)
Windows Terminal Services and (b) allowing for printing
within your internal network. Unless otherwise
expressly permitted hereunder, no other server or
network use of the Software is permitted, including but
not limited to use of the Software (i) either directly
or through commands, data or instructions from or to
another computer or (ii) for internal network, internet
or web hosting services.
2.2.2 For information on how to distribute the Software on
tangible media or through an internal network please
refer to the sections entitled "How to Distribute Adobe
Reader" at
http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/distribute.html;
or "Distribute Macromedia Web Players" at
http://www.adobe.com/licensing.
2.3 Backup Copy. You may make one backup copy of the
Software, provided your backup copy is not installed or
used on any Computer. You may not transfer the rights to
a backup copy unless you transfer all rights in the
Software as provided under Section 4.
2.4 Portable or Home Computer Use. If and only if the
Software is Adobe Reader, in addition to the single copy
permitted under Sections 2.1 and 2.2, the primary user of
the Computer on which the Software is installed may make
a second copy of the Software for his or her exclusive
Use on either a portable Computer or a Computer located
at his or her home, provided the Software on the portable
or home Computer is not used at the same time as the
Software on the primary computer.
2.5 No Modification.
2.5.1 You may not modify, adapt, translate or create
derivative works based upon the Software. You may not
reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble or otherwise
attempt to discover the source code of the Software
except to the extent you may be expressly permitted to
decompile under applicable law, it is essential to do
so in order to achieve operability of the Software with
another software program, and you have first requested
Adobe to provide the information necessary to achieve
such operability and Adobe has not made such
information available. Adobe has the right to impose
reasonable conditions and to request a reasonable fee
before providing such information. Any such information
supplied by Adobe and any information obtained by you
by such permitted decompilation may only be used by you
for the purpose described herein and may not be
disclosed to any third party or used to create any
software which is substantially similar to the
expression of the Software. Requests for information
should be directed to the Adobe Customer Support
Department.
2.5.2 As an exception to the above, you may customize or
extend the functionality of the installer for the Adobe
Reader as specifically allowed by instructions found at
http://www.adobe.com/support/main.html or
http://partners.adobe.com (e.g., installation of
additional plug-in and help files). You may not
otherwise alter or modify the Software or create a new
installer for the Software. The Adobe Reader is
licensed and distributed by Adobe for viewing,
distributing and sharing PDF files.
2.6 Third Party Website Access. The Software may allow you
to access third party websites ("Third Party
Sites"). Your access to and use of any Third Party Sites,
including any goods, services or information made
available from such sites, is governed by the terms and
conditions found at each Third Party Site, if any. Third
Party Sites are not owned or operated by Adobe. YOUR USE
OF THIRD PARTY SITES IS AT YOUR OWN RISK. ADOBE MAKES NO
WARRANTIES, CONDITIONS, INDEMNITIES, REPRESENTATIONS OR
TERMS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WHETHER BY STATUTE, COMMON
LAW, CUSTOM, USAGE OR OTHERWISE AS TO ANY OTHER MATTERS,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD
PARTY RIGHTS, TITLE, INTEGRATION, ACCURACY, SECURITY,
AVAILABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE WITH RESPECT TO THE
THIRD PARTY SITES.
2.7  Certified Documents.
2.7.1 Certified Documents and CD Services. The Software may
allow you to validate Certified Documents. A "Certified
Document" or “CD” is a PDF file that has been digitally
signed using (a) a certificate and (b) a “private”
encryption key that corresponds to the “public” key in
the certificate. Validation of a CD requires CD
Services from the CD Service Provider that issued the
certificate. “CD Service Provider” is an independent
third party service vendor listed at
http://www.adobe.com/security/partners_cds.html. “CD
Services” are services provided by CD Service
Providers, including without limitation (i)
certificates issued by such CD Service Provider for use
with the Software's CD feature set, (ii) services
related to issuance of certificates, and (iii) other
services related to certificates, including without
limitation verification services.
2.7.2 CD Service Providers. Although the Software may
provide validation features, Adobe does not supply the
necessary CD Services required to use these
features. Purchasing, availability and responsibility
for the CD Services are between you and the CD Service
Provider. Before you rely upon any CD, any digital
signature applied thereto, and/or any related CD
Services, you must first review and agree to the
applicable Issuer Statement and this Agreement. “Issuer
Statement” means the terms and conditions under which
each CD Service Provider offers CD Services (see the
links on
http://www.adobe.com/security/partners_cds.html),
including for example any subscriber agreements,
relying party agreements, certificate policies and
practice statements, and Section 2.7 of this
Agreement. By validating a CD using CD Services, you
acknowledge and agree that (a) the certificate used to
digitally sign a CD may be revoked at the time of
verification, making the digital signature on the CD
appear valid when in fact it is not, (b) the security
or integrity of a CD may be compromised due to an act
or omission by the signer of the CD, the applicable CD
Service Provider, or any other third party and (c) you
must read, understand, and be bound by the applicable
Issuer Statement.
2.7.3 Warranty Disclaimer. CD Service Providers offer CD
Services solely in accordance with the applicable
Issuer Statement. ACCESS TO THE CD SERVICES THROUGH THE
USE OF THE SOFTWARE IS MADE AVAILABLE ON AN “AS IS”
BASIS ONLY AND WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY OR INDEMNITY OF ANY
KIND (EXCEPT AS SUPPLIED BY A CD SERVICES PROVIDER IN
ITS ISSUER STATEMENT). ADOBE AND EACH CD SERVICE
PROVIDER (EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN ITS ISSUER
STATEMENT) MAKE NO WARRANTIES, CONDITIONS, INDEMNITIES,
REPRESENTATIONS OR TERMS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WHETHER
BY STATUTE, COMMON LAW, CUSTOM, USAGE OR OTHERWISE AS
TO ANY OTHER MATTERS, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS, TITLE,
INTEGRATION, ACCURACY, SECURITY, AVAILABILITY,
SATISFACTORY QUALITY, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR
ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE WITH RESPECT TO THE CD SERVICES.
2.7.4 Indemnity. You agree to hold Adobe and any applicable
CD Service Provider (except as expressly provided in
its Issuer Statement) harmless from any and all
liabilities, losses, actions, damages, or claims
(including all reasonable expenses, costs, and
attorneys fees) arising out of or relating to any use
of, or reliance on, any CD Service, including, without
limitation (a) reliance on an expired or revoked
certificate, (b) improper verification of a
certificate, (c) use of a certificate other than as
permitted by any applicable Issuer Statement, this
Agreement or applicable law; (d) failure to exercise
reasonable judgment under the circumstances in relying
on the CD Services or (e) failure to perform any of the
obligations as required in an applicable Issuer
Statement.
2.7.5 Limit of Liability. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES WILL ADOBE
OR ANY CD SERVICE PROVIDER (EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET
FORTH IN ITS ISSUER STATEMENT) BE LIABLE TO YOU, OR ANY
OTHER PERSON OR ENTITY, FOR ANY LOSS OF USE, REVENUE OR
PROFIT, LOST OR DAMAGED DATA, OR OTHER COMMERCIAL OR
ECONOMIC LOSS OR FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, STATUTORY, PUNITIVE, EXEMPLARY OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RELATED TO YOUR USE OR
RELIANCE UPON CD SERVICES, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES OR IF SUCH DAMAGES ARE
FORESEEABLE. THIS LIMITATION SHALL APPLY EVEN IN THE
EVENT OF A FUNDAMENTAL OR MATERIAL BREACH OR A BREACH
OF THE FUNDAMENTAL OR MATERIALTERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT.
2.7.6 Third Party Beneficiaries. You agree that any CD
Service Provider you utilize shall be a third party
beneficiary with respect to this Section 2.7 of this
Agreement, and that such CD Service Provider shall have the
right to enforce such provisions in its own name as if the CD
Service Provider were Adobe.  

3. Restrictions.
3.1 Web Player Prohibited Devices. You may not Use any Web
Player on any non-PC device or with any embedded or
device version of any operating system. For the avoidance
of doubt, and by example only, you may not use a Web
Player on any (a) mobile devices, set top boxes (STB),
handhelds, phones, web pads, tablets and Tablet PCs that
are not running Windows XP Tablet PC Edition, game
consoles, TVs, DVD players, media centers (excluding
Windows XP Media Center Edition and its successors),
electronic billboards or other digital signage, internet
appliances or other internet-connected devices, PDAs,
medical devices, ATMs, telematic devices, gaming
machines, home automation systems, kiosks, remote control
devices, or any other consumer electronics device, (b)
operator-based mobile, cable, satellite, or television
systems or (c) other closed system devices.
3.2 Notices. You shall not copy the Software except as set
forth in Section 2. Any copy of the Software that you
make must contain the same copyright and other
proprietary notices that appear on or in the Software.
3.3 Document Features. The Software may contain features
and functionality (the “Document Features”) that appear
disabled or “grayed out.” These Document Features will
only activate when opening a PDF document that was
created using corresponding enabling technology available
only from Adobe (“Keys”). You agree not to access, or
attempt to access, disabled Document Features or
otherwise circumvent the permissions that control
activation of such Document Features. You may only use
the Document Features with PDF documents that have been
enabled using Keys obtained under a valid license from
Adobe. No other use is permitted.
3.4 Adobe Reader Restrictions. You are not authorized to
integrate or use the Adobe Reader with any other software,
plug-in or enhancement that uses or relies upon the the Adobe
Reader when converting or transforming PDF files into other
file formats (e.g., a PDF file into a TIFF, JPEG, or SVG
file). You are not authorized to integrate or use the Adobe
Reader with any plug-in software not developed in accordance
with the Adobe Integration Key License Agreement. Further, you
are not permitted to integrate or use the Adobe Reader with
other software, or access PDF files that contain instructions
(e.g., JavaScript), in order to (a) save data locally (on the
same Computer), (b) create a file that contains data (e.g., an
XML or comments file) or (c) save modifications to a PDF file,
except when such saving or creation is allowed through the use
of Document Feature(s) enabled by Adobe.  

4. Transfer. 
You may not rent, lease, sublicense, assign or transfer your rights 
in the Software, or authorize all or any portion of the Software
to be copied onto another user's Computer except as may be
expressly permitted herein. You may, however, transfer all
your rights to Use the Software to another person or legal
entity provided that: (a) you also transfer (i) this
Agreement, and (ii) the Software and all other software or
hardware bundled or pre-installed with the Software, including
all copies, Updates and prior versions, to such person or
entity, (b) you retain no copies, including backups and copies
stored on a Computer, and (c) the receiving party accepts the
terms and conditions of this Agreement and any other terms and
conditions upon which you legally purchased a license to the
Software. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you may not transfer
education, pre-release, or not for resale copies of the
Software.  

5. Intellectual Property Ownership, Copyright
Protection. The Software and any authorized copies that you
make are the intellectual property of and are owned by Adobe
Systems Incorporated and its suppliers. The structure,
organization and code of the Software are the valuable trade
secrets and confidential information of Adobe Systems
Incorporated and its suppliers. The Software is protected by
law, including without limitation the copyright laws of the
United States and other countries, and by international treaty
provisions. Except as expressly stated herein, this Agreement
does not grant you any intellectual property rights in the
Software and all rights not expressly granted are reserved by
Adobe and its suppliers.  

6. Updates. 
If the Software is an Update to a previous version of the 
Software, you must possess a valid license to such previous 
version in order to Use such Update. All Updates are provided 
to you on a license exchange basis. You agree that by Using an 
Update you voluntarily terminate your right to use any previous 
version of the Software. As an exception, you may continue to 
Use previous versions of the Software on your Computer after you 
Use the Update but only to assist you in the transition to the 
Update, provided that: (a) the Update and the previous versions 
are installed on the same computer; (b) the previous versions or
copies thereof are not transferred to another party or
Computer unless all copies of the Update are also transferred
to such party or Computer; and (c) you acknowledge that any
obligation Adobe may have to support the previous versions of
the Software may be ended upon availability of the Update.

7. NO WARRANTY. 
The Software is being delivered to you "AS IS" and Adobe makes 
no warranty as to its use or performance. Adobe provides no 
technical support, warranties or remedies for the Software. 
ADOBE AND ITS SUPPLIERS DO NOT AND CANNOT WARRANT THE 
PERFORMANCE OR RESULTS YOU MAY OBTAIN BY USING THE SOFTWARE. 
EXCEPT FOR ANY WARRANTY, CONDITION, REPRESENTATION OR TERM TO 
THE EXTENT TO WHICH THE SAME CANNOT OR MAY NOT BE EXCLUDED OR 
LIMITED BY LAW APPLICABLE TO YOU IN YOUR JURISDICTION, ADOBE AND 
ITS SUPPLIERS MAKE NO WARRANTIES CONDITIONS, REPRESENTATIONS, OR 
TERMS (EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WHETHER BY STATUTE, COMMON LAW, CUSTOM, 
USAGE OR OTHERWISE) AS TO ANY MATTER INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION 
NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS, MERCHANTABILITY, INTEGRATION, 
SATISFACTORY QUALITY, OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. The 
provisions of Section 7 and Section 8 shall survive the termination
of this Agreement, howsoever caused, but this shall not imply or
create any continued right to Use the Software after
termination of this Agreement.  

8. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. 
IN NO EVENT WILL ADOBE OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ANY
DAMAGES, CLAIMS OR COSTS WHATSOEVER OR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, OR ANY LOST PROFITS OR LOST
SAVINGS, EVEN IF AN ADOBE REPRESENTATIVE HAS BEEN ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSS, DAMAGES, CLAIMS OR COSTS OR FOR
ANY CLAIM BY ANY THIRD PARTY. THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS AND
EXCLUSIONS APPLY TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW IN
YOUR JURISDICTION. ADOBE'S AGGREGATE LIABILITY AND THAT OF ITS
SUPPLIERS UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE
LIMITED TO THE AMOUNT PAID FOR THE SOFTWARE, IF ANY. Nothing
contained in this Agreement limits Adobe's liability to you in
the event of death or personal injury resulting from Adobe's
negligence or for the tort of deceit (fraud). Adobe is acting
on behalf of its suppliers for the purpose of disclaiming,
excluding and/or limiting obligations, warranties and
liability as provided in this Agreement, but in no other
respects and for no other purpose. For further information,
please see the jurisdiction specific information at the end of
this Agreement, if any, or contact Adobe's Customer Support
Department.  

9. Export Rules. 
You agree that the Software will not be shipped, transferred or 
exported into any country or used in any manner prohibited by 
the United States Export Administration Act or any other export 
laws, restrictions or regulations (collectively the "Export 
Laws"). In addition, if the Software is identified as export 
controlled items under the Export Laws, you represent and 
warrant that you are not a citizen, or otherwise located within, 
an embargoed nation (including without limitation Iran, Syria, 
Sudan, Libya, Cuba, and North Korea) and that you are not 
otherwise prohibited under the Export Laws from receiving the 
Software. All rights to Use the Software are granted on 
condition that such rights are forfeited if you fail to comply 
with the terms of this Agreement.  

10. Governing Law. 
This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance 
with the substantive laws in force: (a) in the State of 
California, if a license to the Software is obtained when you 
are in the United States, Canada, or Mexico; or (b) in Japan, 
if a license to the Software is obtained when you are in 
Japan, China, Korea, or other Southeast Asian country where all 
official languages are written in either an ideographic script 
(e.g., hanzi, kanji, or hanja), and/or other script based upon 
or similar in structure to an ideographic script, such as 
hangul or kana; or (c) England, if a license to the Software is
purchased when you are in any other jurisdiction not described 
above. The respective courts of Santa Clara County, California 
when California law applies, Tokyo District Court in Japan, 
when Japanese law applies, and the competent courts of England,
when the law of England applies, shall each have non-exclusive
jurisdiction over all disputes relating to this
Agreement. This Agreement will not be governed by the conflict
of law rules of any jurisdiction or the United Nations
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods,
the application of which is expressly excluded.  

11. General Provisions. 
If any part of this Agreement is found void and unenforceable, 
it will not affect the validity of the balance of this Agreement, 
which shall remain valid and enforceable according to its terms. 
This Agreement shall not prejudice the statutory rights of any 
party dealing as a consumer. This Agreement may only be modified 
by a writing signed by an authorized officer of Adobe. Updates may
be licensed to you by Adobe with additional or different terms. 
This is the entire agreement between Adobe and you relating to the
Software and it supersedes any prior representations, 
discussions, undertakings, communications or advertising relating 
to the Software.  

12. Notice to U.S. Government End Users. 
The Software and Documentation are "Commercial Items," as that
term is defined at 48 C.F.R. Section 2.101, consisting of 
"Commercial Computer Software" and "Commercial Computer 
Software Documentation," as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 
Section 12.212 or 48 C.F.R. Section 227.7202, as applicable. 
Consistent with 48 C.F.R. Section 12.212 or 48 C.F.R. 
Sections 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4,as applicable, the 
Commercial Computer Software and Commercial Computer 
Software Documentation are being licensed to U.S. 
Government end users (a) only as Commercial Items and (b)
with only those rights as are granted to all other end users
pursuant to the terms and conditions herein. 
Unpublished-rights reserved under the copyright laws
of the United States. Adobe Systems Incorporated, 345 Park
Avenue, San Jose, CA 95110-2704, USA. For U.S. Government End
Users, Adobe agrees to comply with all applicable equal
opportunity laws including, if appropriate, the provisions of
Executive Order 11246, as amended, Section 402 of the Vietnam
Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974 (38 USC
4212), and Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as
amended, and the regulations at 41 CFR Parts 60-1 through
60-60, 60-250, and 60-741. The affirmative action clause and
regulations contained in the preceding sentence shall be
incorporated by reference in this Agreement.  

13. Compliance with Licenses. 
If you are a business or organization, you agree that upon 
request from Adobe or Adobe's authorized representative, 
you will within thirty (30) days fully document and certify 
that use of any and all Software at the time of the request 
is in conformity with your valid licenses from Adobe.  

14. Specific Provisions and Exceptions.
14.1 Limited Warranty for Users Residing in Germany or
Austria. If you obtained the Software in Germany or
Austria, and you usually reside in such country, then
Section 7 does not apply, instead, Adobe warrants that
the Software provides the functionalities set forth in
the Documentation (the "agreed upon functionalities")
for the limited warranty period following receipt of the
Software when used on the recommended hardware
configuration. As used in this Section, "limited
warranty period" means one (1) year if you are a
business user and two (2) years if you are not a
business user. Non-substantial variation from the agreed
upon functionalities shall not be considered and does
not establish any warranty rights. THIS LIMITED WARRANTY
DOES NOT APPLY TO SOFTWARE PROVIDED TO YOU FREE OF
CHARGE, FOR EXAMPLE, UPDATES, PRE-RELEASE, TRYOUT,
PRODUCT SAMPLER, NOT FOR RESALE (NFR) COPIES OF
SOFTWARE, OR SOFTWARE THAT HAS BEEN ALTERED BY YOU, TO
THE EXTENT SUCH ALTERATIONS CAUSED A DEFECT. To make a
warranty claim, during the limited warranty period you
must return, at our expense, the Software and proof of
purchase to the location where you obtained it. If the
functionalities of the Software vary substantially from
the agreed upon functionalities, Adobe is entitled -- by
way of re-performance and at its own discretion -- to
repair or replace the Software. If this fails, you are
entitled to a reduction of the purchase price
(reduction) or to cancel the purchase agreement
(rescission). For further warranty information, please
contact Adobe's Customer Support Department

14.2 Limitation of Liability for Users Residing in Germany
and Austria.
14.2.1 If you obtained the Software in Germany or Austria,
and you usually reside in such country, then Section 8
does not apply, Instead, subject to the provisions in
Section 14.2.2, Adobe's statutory liability for
damages shall be limited as follows: (i) Adobe shall
be liable only up to the amount of damages as
typically foreseeable at the time of entering into the
purchase agreement in respect of damages caused by a
slightly negligent breach of a material contractual
obligation and (ii) Adobe shall not be liable for
damages caused by a slightly negligent breach of a
non-material contractual obligation.
14.2.2 The aforesaid limitation of liability shall not
apply to any mandatory statutory liability, in
particular, to liability under the German Product
Liability Act, liability for assuming a specific
guarantee or liability for culpably caused personal
injuries.
14.2.3 You are required to take all reasonable measures to
avoid and reduce damages, in particular to make
back-up copies of the Software and your computer data
subject to the provisions of this Agreement.

14.3 Pre-release Product Additional Terms. If the product
you have received with this license is pre-commercial
release or beta Software ("Pre-release Software"), then
the following Section applies. To the extent that any
provision in this Section is in conflict with any other
term or condition in this Agreement, this Section shall
supercede such other term(s) and condition(s) with
respect to the Pre-release Software, but only to the
extent necessary to resolve the conflict. You
acknowledge that the Software is a pre-release version,
does not represent final product from Adobe, and may
contain bugs, errors and other problems that could cause
system or other failures and data loss. Consequently,
the Pre-release Software is provided to you "AS-IS", and
Adobe disclaims any warranty or liability obligations to
you of any kind. WHERE LIABILITY CANNOT BE EXCLUDED FOR
PRE-RELEASE SOFTWARE, BUT IT MAY BE LIMITED, ADOBE'S
LIABILITY AND THAT OF ITS SUPPLIERS SHALL BE LIMITED TO
THE SUM OF FIFTY DOLLARS (U.S. $50) IN TOTAL. You
acknowledge that Adobe has not promised or guaranteed to
you that Pre-release Software will be announced or made
available to anyone in the future, Adobe has no express
or implied obligation to you to announce or introduce
the Pre-release Software and that Adobe may not
introduce a product similar to or compatible with the
Pre-release Software. Accordingly, you acknowledge that
any research or development that you perform regarding
the Pre-release Software or any product associated with
the Pre-release Software is done entirely at your own
risk. During the term of this Agreement, if requested by
Adobe, you will provide feedback to Adobe regarding
testing and use of the Pre-release Software, including
error or bug reports. If you have been provided the
Pre-release Software pursuant to a separate written
agreement, such as the Adobe Systems Incorporated Serial
Agreement for Unreleased Products, your use of the
Software is also governed by such agreement. You agree
that you may not and certify that you will not
sublicense, lease, loan, rent, assign or transfer the
Pre-release Software. Upon receipt of a later unreleased
version of the Pre-release Software or release by Adobe
of a publicly released commercial version of the
Software, whether as a stand-alone product or as part of
a larger product, you agree to return or destroy all
earlier Pre-release Software received from Adobe and to
abide by the terms of the license agreement for any such
later versions of the Pre-release
Software. Notwithstanding anything in this Section to
the contrary, if you are located outside the United
States of America, you agree that you will return or
destroy all unreleased versions of the Pre-release
Software within thirty (30) days of the completion of
your testing of the Software when such date is earlier
than the date for Adobe's first commercial shipment of
the publicly released (commercial) Software.

14.4 Settings Manager. Use of the Web Players, specifically
the Flash Player, will enable the Software to store
certain user settings as a local shared object on a your
Computer. These settings are not associated with you,
but allow you to configure certain settings within the
Flash Player. You can find more information on local
shared objects at
http://www.adobe.com/software/flashplayer/security/ and
more information on the Settings Manager at
www.adobe.com/go/settingsmanager.

If you have any questions regarding this Agreement or if you wish
to request any information from Adobe please use the address and
contact information included with this product or via the web at
www.adobe.com to contact the Adobe office serving your
jurisdiction

Adobe, Authorware, Flash, Reader, and Shockwave are either
registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated
in the United States and/or other countries.


##############################################

REALPLAYER 10

Helix DNA Technology Binary Research Use License

REDISTRIBUTION NOT PERMITTED

This Helix DNA Technology Binary Research Use License ("License")
is a legal agreement between You and RealNetworks, Inc. and its
suppliers and licensors (collectively, "RealNetworks") for the
binary versions of the Helix DNA Compiled Binaries distributed
under this License ("Software"), which are made available from
the "Helix DNA Compiled Binaries" section of the
www.helixcommunity.org <http://www.helixcommunity.org/> Web site.
"You" means an individual, or a legal entity acting by and
through an individual or individuals, exercising rights either
under this License. For legal entities, "You" includes any entity
that by majority voting interest controls, is controlled by, or
is under common control with You. The terms and conditions for
this License are as follows:

By clicking on or accepting the "ACCEPT" option below, or by
installing, copying or otherwise using the Software, you agree to
be bound by the terms of this License Agreement. IF YOU DO NOT
AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT, CLICK THE "ACCEPT"
BUTTON AND/OR DO NOT INSTALL THE SOFTWARE.

YOU AGREE THAT YOUR USE OF THE SOFTWARE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT YOU
HAVE READ THIS LICENSE, UNDERSTAND IT, AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY
ITS TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

1. GRANT OF LICENSE FOR INTERNAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT WORK.
Subject to the restrictions set forth herein, RealNetworks hereby
grants to You a non-exclusive, non-sublicensable, personal
license to use the Software in object code and any accompanying
documentation ("Documentation") solely for Your internal,
non-commercial evaluation and research use, provided that You may
only install and use a reasonable number of copies of the
Software on computers owned or controlled by You and located on
Your premises. As part of such use You may combine the Software
with other Helix software properly licensed to You under the
terms of the RealNetworks Community Source License Agreement or
the RealNetworks Public Source License Agreement, but You may not
otherwise create derivative works of the Software or
Documentation.

2. LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.

a) You may not: (i) permit other individuals to use the Software
except under the terms listed above; (ii) modify, translate,
reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble or use any other method
(including "clean room" development) to learn the source code of
the Software (except to the extent that this restriction is
expressly prohibited by law); (iii) rent, lease, transfer, or
otherwise transfer rights to the Software or Documentation; (iv)
remove any proprietary notices or labels on the Software or
Documentation; (v) use the Software to encode, reproduce or copy
any material or intellectual property You do not have the right
to encode, reproduce, or copy; (vi) use the Software to develop
any application that has the capability of transcoding or
converting RealAudio or RealVideo Files into any other file
format ("Transcode" means to alter the current encoding or form
of media files that was decoded from its original form, including
by way of example but not limited to by way of example but not
limited to: decompression of an audio or video stream and
recompression using a different compression algorithm); or (vii)
make available to any third party the results of any evaluation
or testing of the Software by You under this License. Any such
forbidden use shall immediately terminate Your license to the
Software.

b) You agree that You shall only use the Software and
Documentation in a manner that complies with all applicable laws
in the jurisdictions in which You use the Software and
Documentation, including, but not limited to, applicable
restrictions concerning copyright and other intellectual property
rights.

c) You may not use the Software in an attempt to, or in
conjunction with, any device, program or service designed to
circumvent technological measures employed to control access to,
or the rights in, a digital media content file or other work
protected by the copyright laws of any jurisdiction.

d) Certain components of the Software may a serial copying
management system required by the laws of the United States. You
may not circumvent or attempt to circumvent this system by any
means.

3. COPIES OF SOFTWARE AND ENHANCEMENTS. This license does not
grant You any right to any enhancement or update.

4. TITLE. Title, ownership, rights, and intellectual property
rights in and to the Software and Documentation shall remain in
RealNetworks.  The Software is protected by the copyright laws of
the United States and international copyright treaties. Title,
ownership rights and intellectual property rights in and to the
content accessed through the Software including the content
contained in the Software media demonstration files shall be
retained by the applicable content owner and may be protected by
applicable copyright or other law. This license gives You no
rights to such content.

5. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY & LIMIT OF LIABILITY.  THE SOFTWARE AND
DOCUMENTATION ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND.
TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, REALNETWORKS
FURTHER DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NONINFRINGEMENT. THE ENTIRE RISK ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION
REMAINS WITH YOU. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL REALNETWORKS OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, PUNITIVE,
OR OTHER DAMAGES WHATSOEVER (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION,
DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS
OF BUSINESS INFORMATION, OR OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS) ARISING OUT OF
THIS LICENSE OR THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE PRODUCT, EVEN
IF REALNETWORKS HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.  REALNETWORKS' TOTAL LIABLITY FOR ANY DIRECT DAMAGES
SHALL NOT EXCEED FIVE DOLLARS ($5.00).  BECAUSE SOME
STATES/JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF
LIABILITY FOR CONSEQUENTIAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, THE ABOVE
LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

6. INDEMNIFICATION. This Software is intended for use only with
properly licensed media, content and content creation tools. It
is Your responsibility to ascertain whether any copyright, patent
or other licenses are necessary and to obtain any licenses to
such media and content. You agree to use only those materials for
which You have the necessary patent, copyright and other
permissions, licenses, and/or clearances. You agree to hold
harmless, indemnify and defend RealNetworks, its officers,
directors and employees, from and against any losses, damages,
fines and expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs) arising
out of or relating to any claims that You have encoded, copied,
compressed, enabled the "Allow Recording" feature, enabled the
"Allow Download" feature, or copied, used, published, displayed,
or transmitted any content or materials (other than materials
provided by RealNetworks specifically for Your use) in connection
with the Software in violation of another party's rights If You
are importing the Software from the United States, You shall
indemnify and hold RealNetworks harmless from and against any
import and export duties or other claims arising from such
importation. 

7. TERMINATION. This License and Your right to use this Software
automatically terminate if You fail to comply with any material
provision of this License. RealNetworks may terminate this
License at any time by delivering notice to You and You may
terminate this License at any time by destroying or erasing Your
copy of the Software. Upon termination of this License, You agree
to destroy or erase the Software.

8. NO ASSIGNMENT. This License is personal to You, and may not be
assigned without RealNetworks' express written consent.

9. U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS. U.S.  GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED
RIGHTS: This Software and documentation are provided with
RESTRICTED RIGHTS. Use, duplication or disclosure by the
Government is subject to restrictions set forth in subparagraphs
(a) through (d) of the Commercial Computer Software--Restricted
Rights at FAR 52.227-19 when applicable, or in subparagraph
(c)(1)(ii) of the Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software
clause at DFARS 252.227-7013, and in similar clauses in the NASA
FAR supplement, as applicable.  Manufacturer is RealNetworks,
Inc./2601 Elliott, Suite 1000/Seattle, Washington 98121.  You are
responsible for complying with all trade regulations and laws
both foreign and domestic. You acknowledge that none of the
Software or underlying information or technology may be
downloaded or otherwise exported or re-exported (i) into (or to a
national or resident of) Cuba, Iraq, Libya, Sudan, North Korea,
Iran, Syria or any other country subject to a U.S. embargo; or
(ii) to anyone on the U.S. Treasury Department's list of
Specially Designated Nationals or the U.S.  Commerce Department's
Denied Parties List or Entity List. By using the Software You are
agreeing to the foregoing and are representing and warranting
that (i) no U.S. federal agency has suspended, revoked, or denied
You export privileges, (ii) You are not located in or under the
control of a national or resident of any such country or on any
such list, and (iii) You will not export or re-export the
Software to any prohibited county, or to any prohibited person,
entity, or end-user as specified by U.S. export controls.

10. MISCELLANEOUS. This License Agreement shall constitute the
complete and exclusive agreement between us. A separate written
agreement with respect to the subject matter hereof shall
supersede this instrument to the extent indicated in such
separate agreement. This License Agreement may not be modified
except in a writing duly signed by an authorized representative
of RealNetworks and You. If any provision of this License
Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, such
provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make
it enforceable, and such decision shall not affect the
enforceability of such provision under other circumstances, or of
the remaining provisions hereof under all circumstances. This
License Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
Washington without regard to conflicts of law provisions and You
consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal
courts sitting in the State of Washington. This License Agreement
will not be governed by the United Nations Convention of
Contracts for the International Sale of Goods, the application of
which is hereby expressly excluded. 

Copyright (C)1995-2004 RealNetworks, Inc.  and/or its suppliers.
2601 Elliott Avenue, Suite 1000, Seattle, Washington 98121 U.S.A.
The Software may incorporate one or more of the following
patents: U.S.  Patent #5,917,835; U.S. Patent # 5,854,858; U.S.
Patent # 5,917,954.  Other U.S. patents pending. All rights
reserved. RealNetworks, Helix, RealAudio, and RealVideo are
trademarks or registered trademarks of RealNetworks, Inc.  

By Clicking the "ACCEPT" button below you are agreeing to the
Helix DNA Technology Binary Research Use License


##############################################

Sun Microsystems, Inc.  Binary Code License Agreement for the:
JAVATM 2 RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT (J2RE), STANDARD EDITION, VERSION
1.4.2_X

SUN MICROSYSTEMS, INC. ("SUN") IS WILLING TO LICENSE THE SOFTWARE
IDENTIFIED BELOW TO YOU ONLY UPON THE CONDITION THAT YOU ACCEPT
ALL OF THE TERMS CONTAINED IN THIS BINARY CODE LICENSE AGREEMENT
AND SUPPLEMENTAL LICENSE TERMS (COLLECTIVELY "AGREEMENT").
PLEASE READ THE AGREEMENT CAREFULLY.  BY DOWNLOADING OR
INSTALLING THIS SOFTWARE, YOU ACCEPT THE TERMS OF THE AGREEMENT.
INDICATE ACCEPTANCE BY SELECTING THE "ACCEPT" BUTTON AT THE
BOTTOM OF THE AGREEMENT. IF YOU ARE NOT WILLING TO BE BOUND BY
ALL THE TERMS, SELECT THE "DECLINE" BUTTON AT THE BOTTOM OF THE
AGREEMENT AND THE DOWNLOAD OR INSTALL PROCESS WILL NOT CONTINUE.

1. DEFINITIONS. "Software" means the identified above in binary
form, any other machine readable materials (including, but not
limited to, libraries, source files, header files, and data
files), any updates or error corrections provided by Sun, and any
user manuals, programming guides and other documentation provided
to you by Sun under this Agreement.  "Programs" mean Java applets
and applications intended to run on the Java 2 Platform, Standard
Edition (J2SETM platform) platform on Java-enabled general
purpose desktop computers and servers.

2. LICENSE TO USE. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, including, but not limited to the Java Technology
Restrictions of the Supplemental License Terms, Sun grants you a
non-exclusive, non-transferable, limited license without license
fees to reproduce and use internally Software complete and
unmodified for the sole purpose of running Programs.  Additional
licenses for developers and/or publishers are granted in the
Supplemental License Terms.

3. RESTRICTIONS. Software is confidential and copyrighted. Title
to Software and all associated intellectual property rights is
retained by Sun and/or its licensors. Unless enforcement is
prohibited by applicable law, you may not modify, decompile, or
reverse engineer Software.  You acknowledge that Licensed
Software is not designed or intended for use in the design,
construction, operation or maintenance of any nuclear facility.
Sun Microsystems, Inc. disclaims any express or implied warranty
of fitness for such uses. No right, title or interest in or to
any trademark, service mark, logo or trade name of Sun or its
licensors is granted under this Agreement. Additional
restrictions for developers and/or publishers licenses are set
forth in the Supplemental License Terms.

4. LIMITED WARRANTY.  Sun warrants to you that for a period of
ninety (90) days from the date of purchase, as evidenced by a
copy of the receipt, the media on which Software is furnished (if
any) will be free of defects in materials and workmanship under
normal use.  Except for the foregoing, Software is provided "AS
IS".  Your exclusive remedy and Sun's entire liability under this
limited warranty will be at Sun's option to replace Software
media or refund the fee paid for Software. Any implied warranties
on the Software are limited to 90 days. Some states do not allow
limitations on duration of an implied warranty, so the above may
not apply to you. This limited warranty gives you specific legal
rights. You may have others, which vary from state to state.

5. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.  UNLESS SPECIFIED IN THIS AGREEMENT,
ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED CONDITIONS, REPRESENTATIONS AND
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE
DISCLAIMED, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT THAT THESE DISCLAIMERS ARE HELD
TO BE LEGALLY INVALID.  

6. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.  TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY LAW,
IN NO EVENT WILL SUN OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOST
REVENUE, PROFIT OR DATA, OR FOR SPECIAL, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL,
INCIDENTAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, HOWEVER CAUSED REGARDLESS OF THE
THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THE USE OF OR
INABILITY TO USE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF SUN HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.  In no event will Sun's liability to
you, whether in contract, tort (including negligence), or
otherwise, exceed the amount paid by you for Software under this
Agreement.  The foregoing limitations will apply even if the
above stated warranty fails of its essential purpose. Some states
do not allow the exclusion of incidental or consequential
damages, so some of the terms above may not be applicable to you.

7. SOFTWARE UPDATES FROM SUN. You acknowledge that at your
request or consent optional features of the Software may
download, install, and execute applets, applications, software
extensions, and updated versions of the Software from Sun
("Software Updates"), which may require you to accept updated
terms and conditions for installation. If additional terms and
conditions are not presented on installation, the Software
Updates will be considered part of the Software and subject to
the terms and conditions of the Agreement.

8. SOFTWARE FROM SOURCES OTHER THAN SUN. You acknowledge that, by
your use of optional features of the Software and/or by
requesting services that require use of the optional features of
the Software, the Software may automatically download, install,
and execute software applications from sources other than Sun
("Other Software"). Sun makes no representations of a
relationship of any kind to licensors of Other Software. TO THE
EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL SUN OR ITS
LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOST REVENUE, PROFIT OR DATA, OR FOR
SPECIAL, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES,
HOWEVER CAUSED REGARDLESS OF THE THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT
OF OR RELATED TO THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE OTHER SOFTWARE,
EVEN IF SUN HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
Some states do not allow the exclusion of incidental or
consequential damages, so some of the terms above may not be
applicable to you. 

9. TERMINATION.  This Agreement is effective until terminated.
You may terminate this Agreement at any time by destroying all
copies of Software.  This Agreement will terminate immediately
without notice from Sun if you fail to comply with any provision
of this Agreement.  Either party may terminate this Agreement
immediately should any Software become, or in either party's
opinion be likely to become, the subject of a claim of
infringement of any intellectual property right. Upon
Termination, you must destroy all copies of Software.

10. EXPORT REGULATIONS. All Software and technical data delivered
under this Agreement are subject to US export control laws and
may be subject to export or import regulations in other
countries.  You agree to comply strictly with all such laws and
regulations and acknowledge that you have the responsibility to
obtain such licenses to export, re-export, or import as may be
required after delivery to you.

11. TRADEMARKS AND LOGOS. You acknowledge and agree as between
you and Sun that Sun owns the SUN, SOLARIS, JAVA, JINI, FORTE,
and iPLANET trademarks and all SUN, SOLARIS, JAVA, JINI, FORTE,
and iPLANET-related trademarks, service marks, logos and other
brand designations ("Sun Marks"), and you agree to comply with
the Sun Trademark and Logo Usage Requirements currently located
at http://www.sun.com/policies/trademarks. Any use you make of
the Sun Marks inures to Sun's benefit.

12. U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If Software is being
acquired by or on behalf of the U.S. Government or by a U.S.
Government prime contractor or subcontractor (at any tier), then
the Government's rights in Software and accompanying
documentation will be only as set forth in this Agreement; this
is in accordance with 48 CFR 227.7201 through 227.7202-4 (for
Department of Defense (DOD) acquisitions) and with 48 CFR 2.101
and 12.212 (for non-DOD acquisitions).

13. GOVERNING LAW.  Any action related to this Agreement will be
governed by California law and controlling U.S. federal law.  No
choice of law rules of any jurisdiction will apply.

14. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Agreement is held to
be unenforceable, this Agreement will remain in effect with the
provision omitted, unless omission would frustrate the intent of
the parties, in which case this Agreement will immediately
terminate.

15. INTEGRATION.  This Agreement is the entire agreement between
you and Sun relating to its subject matter.  It supersedes all
prior or contemporaneous oral or written communications,
proposals, representations and warranties and prevails over any
conflicting or additional terms of any quote, order,
acknowledgment, or other communication between the parties
relating to its subject matter during the term of this Agreement.
No modification of this Agreement will be binding, unless in
writing and signed by an authorized representative of each party.

SUPPLEMENTAL LICENSE TERMS

These Supplemental License Terms add to or modify the terms of
the Binary Code License Agreement. Capitalized terms not defined
in these Supplemental Terms shall have the same meanings ascribed
to them in the Binary Code License Agreement . These Supplemental
Terms shall supersede any inconsistent or conflicting terms in
the Binary Code License Agreement, or in any license contained
within the Software.

A. Software Internal Use and Development License Grant. Subject
to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including, but not
limited to the Java Technology Restrictions of these Supplemental
Terms, Sun grants you a non-exclusive, non-transferable, limited
license without fees to reproduce internally and use internally
the Software complete and unmodified for the purpose of
designing, developing, and testing your Programs.

B. License to Distribute Software. Subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, including, but not limited to the
Java Technology Restrictions of these Supplemental Terms, Sun
grants you a non-exclusive, non- transferable, limited license
without fees to reproduce and distribute the Software, provided
that (i) you distribute the Software complete and unmodified
(unless otherwise specified in the applicable README file) and
only bundled as part of, and for the sole purpose of running,
your Programs, (ii) the Programs add significant and primary
functionality to the Software, (iii) you do not distribute
additional software intended to replace any component(s) of the
Software (unless otherwise specified in the applicable README
file), (iv) you do not remove or alter any proprietary legends or
notices contained in the Software, (v) you only distribute the
Software subject to a license agreement that protects Sun's
interests consistent with the terms contained in this Agreement,
and (vi) you agree to defend and indemnify Sun and its licensors
from and against any damages, costs, liabilities, settlement
amounts and/or expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred in
connection with any claim, lawsuit or action by any third party
that arises or results from the use or distribution of any and
all Programs and/or Software.

C. License to Distribute Redistributables.  Subject to the terms
and conditions of this Agreement, including but not limited to
the Java Technology Restrictions of these Supplemental Terms, Sun
grants you a non- exclusive, non-transferable, limited license
without fees to reproduce and distribute those files specifically
identified as redistributable in the Software "README" file
("Redistributables") provided that: (i) you distribute the
Redistributables complete and unmodified (unless otherwise
specified in the applicable README file), and only bundled as
part of Programs, (ii) you do not distribute additional software
intended to supersede any component(s) of the Redistributables
(unless otherwise specified in the applicable README file), (iii)
you do not remove or alter any proprietary legends or notices
contained in or on the Redistributables, (iv) you only distribute
the Redistributables pursuant to a license agreement that
protects Sun's interests consistent with the terms contained in
the Agreement, (v) you agree to defend and indemnify Sun and its
licensors from and against any damages, costs, liabilities,
settlement amounts and/or expenses (including attorneys' fees)
incurred in connection with any claim, lawsuit or action by any
third party that arises or results from the use or distribution
of any and all Programs and/or Software.

D. Java Technology Restrictions. You may not modify the Java
Platform Interface ("JPI", identified as classes contained within
the "java" package or any subpackages of the "java" package), by
creating additional classes within the JPI or otherwise causing
the addition to or modification of the classes in the JPI.  In
the event that you create an additional class and associated
API(s) which (i) extends the functionality of the Java platform,
and (ii) is exposed to third party software developers for the
purpose of developing additional software which invokes such
additional API, you must promptly publish broadly an accurate
specification for such API for free use by all developers. You
may not create, or authorize your licensees to create, additional
classes, interfaces, or subpackages that are in any way
identified as "java", "javax", "sun" or similar convention as
specified by Sun in any naming convention designation.

E. Source Code. Software may contain source code that, unless
expressly licensed for other purposes, is provided solely for
reference purposes pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Source code may not be redistributed unless expressly provided
for in this Agreement.

F. Third Party Code. Additional copyright notices and license
terms applicable to portions of the Software are set forth in the
THIRDPARTYLICENSEREADME.txt file. In addition to any terms and
conditions of any third party opensource/freeware license
identified in the THIRDPARTYLICENSEREADME.txt file, the
disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provisions in
paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Binary Code License Agreement shall
apply to all Software in this distribution.

For inquiries please contact: Sun Microsystems, Inc., 4150
Network Circle, Santa Clara, California 95054, U.S.A.
(LFI#135003/Form ID#011801)


##############################################

AGFA MONOTYPE CORPORATION END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT

We recommend that you print this End User Agreement for further
reference.

This Agfa Monotype Corporation End User Agreement (the
"Agreement") becomes a binding contract between you and Agfa
Monotype Corporation (a) when you click on the area marked
"ACCEPT LICENSE AGREEMENT", or, (b) if you are acquiring Font
Software on a floppy disk, when you open the package in which the
font is contained. If you do not wish to be bound by the
Agreement, you cannot access, use or download the Font Software.
Please read all of the Agreement before you agree to be bound by
its terms and conditions.

You hereby agree to the following: 1.You are bound by the
Agreement and you acknowledge that all Use (as defined herein) of
the Font Software (as defined herein) supplied to you by AMT is
governed by the Agreement. 

2."AMT" as used herein shall mean collectively Agfa Monotype
Corporation, its successors and assigns, its parent and
affiliated corporations, its authorized distributors, and any
third party which has licensed to AMT any or all of the
components of the Font Software supplied to you pursuant to the
Agreement.

3."Font Software" as used herein shall mean software which, when
used on an appropriate device or devices, generates typeface and
typographic designs and ornaments. Font Software shall include
all bitmap representations of typeface and typographic designs
and ornaments created by or derived from the Font Software. Font
Software includes upgrades, updates, related files, permitted
modifications, permitted copies, and related documentation.

4."Basic Licensed Unit" as used herein shall mean up to five (5)
Workstations (as defined herein) connected to no more than one
(1) printer with a non-volatile memory (for example, a hard
drive), all located at a single geographic location. If you
intend to use the Font Software on more equipment than permitted
by a Basic Licensed Unit, you must create an "Expanded Licensed
Unit" by obtaining from AMT, for an additional fee, a site
license for all such equipment. "Licensed Unit" as used herein
shall mean a Basic Licensed Unit or an Expanded Licensed Unit as
is appropriate to the context in which the term is used. If you
have acquired an entire Font Software Library (that is, a single
license for Font Software for 500 or more different typeface
designs) and you use such Font Software Library only at a single
geographic location, then "Licensed Unit" shall mean up to twenty
(20) Workstations connected to no more than two (2) printers with
non- volatile memories at such geographic location.  

5."Use" of the Font Software shall occur when an individual is
able to give commands (whether by keyboard or otherwise) that are
followed by the Font Software, regardless of the location in
which the Font Software resides.

6."Derivative Work" shall mean binary data based upon or derived
from Font Software (or any portion of Font Software) in any form
in which such binary data may be recast, transformed, or adapted
including, but not limited to, binary data in any format into
which Font Software may be converted.

7."Personal or Internal Business Use" shall mean Use of the Font
Software for your customary personal or internal business
purposes and shall not mean any distribution whatsoever of the
Font Software or any component or Derivative Work thereof.
"Personal or Internal Business Use" shall not include any Use of
the Font Software by persons that are not members of your
immediate household, your authorized employees, or your
authorized agents. All such household members, employees and
agents shall be notified by you as to the terms and conditions of
the Agreement and shall agree to be bound by it before they can
have Use of the Font Software.

8."Workstation" as used herein shall mean a component in which an
individual is able to give commands (whether by keyboard or
otherwise) that are followed by the Font Software, regardless of
the location in which the Font Software resides.

9."Commercial Product" as used herein shall mean an electronic
document or data file created by Use of the Font Software which
is offered for distribution to the general public (or to some
subset of the general public) as a commercial product in exchange
for a separate fee or other consideration. By way of illustration
and not by way of limitation, an electronic book or magazine
distributed for a fee shall be considered a Commercial Product; a
document distributed in connection with a commercial transaction
in which the consideration is unrelated to such document (for
example, a business letter, a ticket for an event, or a receipt
for purchase of tangible goods such as clothing) shall not be
considered a Commercial Product. 

10.You are hereby granted a non-exclusive, non-assignable,
non-transferable (except as expressly permitted herein) license
to access the Font Software (i) only in a Licensed Unit, (ii)
only for your Personal or Internal Business Use, and (iii) only
subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Agreement. You
have no rights to the Font Software other than as expressly set
forth in the Agreement. You agree that AMT owns all right, title
and interest in and to the Font Software, its structure,
organization, code, and related files, including all property
rights therein such as copyright, design and trademarks rights.
You agree that the Font Software, its structure, organization,
code, and related files are valuable property of AMT and that any
intentional Use of the Font Software not expressly permitted by
the Agreement constitutes a theft of valuable property. All
rights not expressly granted in the Agreement are expressly
reserved to AMT. You may not use the Font Software to
electronically distribute a Commercial Document without a
separate license from AMT authorizing you to do so.

11.You may install and Use the Font Software on a single file
server for Use on a single local area network ("LAN") only when
the Use of such Font Software is limited to the Workstations and
printers that are part of the Licensed Unit of which the server
is a part.  For the purpose of determining the proper number of
Workstations for which a license is needed, the following example
is supplied for illustration purposes only: If there are 100
Workstations connected to the server, with no more than 15
Workstations ever using the Font Software concurrently, but the
Font Software will be used on 25 different Workstations at
various points in time, a site license must be obtained creating
a Licensed Unit for 25 Workstations. The Font Software may not be
installed or Used on a server that can be accessed via the
Internet or other external network system (a system other than a
LAN) by Workstations which are not part of a Licensed Unit.

12.You may electronically distribute Font Software embedded in a
"Personal or Internal Business Use" document (that is, a document
other than a "Commercial Product" as defined herein) only when
the Font Software embedded in such document (i) is in a static
graphic image (for example, a "gif") or an embedded electronic
document, and (ii) is distributed in a secure format that permits
only the viewing and printing (and not the editing, altering,
enhancing, or modifying) of such static graphic image or embedded
document. You may not embed Font Software in a Commercial Product
without a separate written license from AMT, and you may not
embed Font Software in an electronic document or data file for
any reason other than your own Personal or Internal Business Use.

13.You may not alter Font Software for the purpose of adding any
functionality which such Font Software did not have when
delivered to you by AMT. If the Font Software contains embedding
bits that limit the capabilities of the Font Software, you may
not change or alter the embedding bits. Font Software may not be
used to create or distribute any electronic document in which the
Font Software, or any part thereof, is embedded in a format that
permits editing, alterations, enhancements, or modifications by
the recipient of such document. If you have reason to believe
that a recipient of an electronic document possesses the
capability to edit, alter, enhance, or modify such electronic
document even though you have distributed it in a format which
does not permit such editing, alteration, enhancement, or
modification, you shall not transmit such document to such
person. 

14.You may take a digitized copy of the Font Software used for a
particular document, or Font Software embedded in an electronic
document, to a commercial printer or service bureau for use by
the printer or service in printing such document but only if the
printer or service bureau represents to you that it has purchased
or been granted a license to use that particular Font Software. 

15.You acknowledge that the Font Software is protected by the
copyright and other intellectual property law of the United
States and its various States, by the copyright and design laws
of other nations, and by international treaties. You agree to
treat the Font Software as you would any other copyrighted
material, such as a book. You may not copy the Font Software,
except as expressly provided herein. Any copies that you are
expressly permitted to make pursuant to the Agreement must
contain the same copyright, trademark, and other proprietary
notices that appear on or in the Font Software. You agree not to
adapt, modify, alter, translate, convert, or otherwise change the
Font Software, or to create Derivative Works from Font Software
or any portion thereof. You further agree not to use Font
Software in connection with software and/or hardware which create
Derivative Works of such Font Software. You agree not to reverse
engineer, decompile, disassemble, or otherwise attempt to
discover the source code of the Font Software, provided, however,
that if you are located in a European Community member country or
any other country which provides rights materially similar to the
rights set forth in this proviso, you may reverse engineer or
decompile the Font Software only to the extent that sufficient
information is not available for the purpose of creating an
interoperable software program (but only for such purpose and
only to the extent that sufficient information is not provided by
AMT upon written request). You agree to use trademarks associated
with the Font Software according to accepted trademark practice,
including identification of the trademark owner’s name.
Trademarks can only be used to identify printed output produced
by the Font Software. The use of any trademark as herein
authorized does not give you any rights of ownership in that
trademark and all use of any trademark shall inure to the sole
benefit of AMT. You may not change any trademark or trade name
designation for the Font Software.

16. You may not rent, lease, sublicense, give, lend, or further
distribute the Font Software, or any copy thereof, except as
expressly provided herein. You may transfer all your rights to
use the Font Software to another person or legal entity provided
that (i) the transferee accepts and agrees to be bound by all the
terms and conditions of the Agreement, and (ii) you destroy all
copies of the Font Software, including all copies stored in the
memory of a hardware device. If you are a business or
organization, you agree that upon request from AMT or AMT's
authorized representative, you will with thirty (30) days fully
document and certify that use of any and all AMT Font Software at
the time of the request is in conformity with your valid licences
from AMT.

17.You may make one back-up copy of Font Software for archival
purposes only, and you shall retain exclusive custody and control
over such copy. Upon termination of the Agreement, you must
destroy the original and any and all copies of the Font Software.

18.AMT warrants to you that the Font Software will perform
substantially in accordance with its documentation for the ninety
(90) day period following delivery of the Font Software.  To make
a warranty claim, you must, within the ninety (90) day warranty
period, return the Font Software to the location from which you
obtained it along with a copy of your receipt or, if such Font
Software is acquired on-line, contact the on-line provider with
sufficient information regarding your acquisition of the Font
Software so as to enable AMT to verify the existence and date of
the transaction. If the Font Software does not perform
substantially in accordance with its documentation, the entire,
exclusive, and cumulative liability and remedy shall be limited
to the refund of the license fee you paid to AMT to obtain
delivery of the Font Software. AMT DOES NOT WARRANT THE
PERFORMANCE OR RESULTS YOU MAY OBTAIN BY USING THE FONT SOFTWARE.
THE FOREGOING STATES THE SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDIES FOR AMT’S
BREACH OF WARRANTY. EXCEPT FOR THE FOREGOING LIMITED WARRANTY,
AMT MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
AS TO NON- NFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS, MERCHANTABILITY, OR
FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. IN NO EVENT WILL AMT BE
LIABLE TO YOU OR ANYONE ELSE (I) FOR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL,
INCIDENTAL OR SPECIAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY
LOST PROFITS, LOST DATA, LOST BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES, OR LOST
SAVINGS, EVEN IF AMT HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES, OR (II) FOR ANY CLAIM AGAINST YOU BY ANY THIRD PARTY
SEEKING SUCH DAMAGES EVEN IF AMT HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

Some states or jurisdictions do not allow the exclusions of
limitations of incidental, consequential or special damages, so
the above exclusion may not apply to you. Also, some states or
jurisdictions do not allow the exclusions of implied warranties
or limitations on how long an implied warranty may last, so the
above limitations may not apply to you. To the greatest extent
permitted by law, any implied warranties not effectively excluded
by the Agreement are limited to ninety (90) days.  Some
jurisdictions do not permit a limitation of implied warranties
where the product results in physical injury or death so that
such limitations may not apply to you. In those jurisdictions,
you agree that AMT’s liability for such physical injury or death
shall not exceed One Hundred Thousand Dollars (U.S.  $100,000),
provided that such jurisdictions permit a limitation of such
liability. This warranty gives you specific legal rights. You may
have other rights that vary from state to state or jurisdiction
to jurisdiction. The Font Software is non-returnable and
nonrefundable.

19. The Agreement will be governed by the laws of Illinois
applicable to contracts wholly entered and performable within
such state. All disputes related to the Agreement shall be heard
in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, U.S.A. or the
United States District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois, Chicago, Illinois U.S.A. Both you and AMT agree to the
personal jurisdiction and venue of these courts in any action
related to the Agreement.  The Agreement will not be governed by
the United Nations Convention of Contracts for the International
Sale of Goods, the application of which is expressly excluded. If
any part of this Agreement is found void and unenforceable, it
will not affect the validity of the balance of the Agreement,
which shall remain valid and enforceable according to its terms.

20.The Agreement shall automatically terminate upon failure by
you (or any authorized person or member of your immediate
household to whom you have given permission to Use the Font
Software) to comply with its terms. The termination of the
Agreement shall not preclude AMT from suing you for damages of
any breach of the Agreement. The Agreement may only be modified
in writing signed by an authorized officer of AMT. You agree that
the Font Software will not be shipped, transferred or exported
into any country or used in any manner prohibited by the United
States Export Administration or any applicable export laws,
restrictions or regulations.

21.You have the rights expressly set forth in the Agreement and
no other. All rights in and to the Font Software, including
unpublished rights, are reserved under the copyright laws of the
United States and other jurisdictions.  All rights reserved.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any law,
statute, treaty, or governmental regulation shall be deemed by a
court of competent jurisdiction to provide you with any
additional or different rights from those provided herein and
such rights shall be deemed non-waiveable as a matter of law and
to supersede the rights specifically provided herein, then such
law, statute, treaty, or governmental regulation shall be deemed
to be made a part of the Agreement. To the extent that any such
rights created by any law, statute, treaty or governmental
regulation are waiveable, you agree that your acceptance of the
Agreement shall constitute an effective and irrevocable waiver of
such rights. The Agreement may be enforced by AMT or by an
authorized dealer acting on behalf of AMT.

22.If this product is acquired under the terms of a (i) GSA
contract - use, reproduction or disclosure is subject to the
restrictions set forth in the applicable ADP Schedule contract,
(ii) DOD contract - use, duplication or disclosure by the
Government is subject to the applicable restrictions set forth in
DFARS 252.277-7013; (iii) Civilian agency contract - use,
reproduction, or disclosure is subject to FAR 52.277-19(a)
through (d) and restrictions set forth in the Agreement. 

"Monotype" is a trademark of Agfa Monotype Limited registered in
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and elsewhere. All other
trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


#############################################

END-USER LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR BRAINSTORM COURSEWARE SOFWARE
Single User License (1 users)


PLEASE READ THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT CAREFULLY. BY
DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING OR USING THE SOFTWARE YOU INDICATE
ACCEPTANCE OF AND AGREE TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS
AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS, DO
NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL OR USE THE SOFTWARE. THIS AGREEMENT DOES
NOT SUPERCEDE ANY OTHER WRITTEN AGREEMENT BETWEEN YOU AND
BRAINSTORM, INC.

THIS PRODUCT IS LICENSED FOR USE BY 1 INDIVIDUAL USER.  IT CANNOT
BE SOLD OR OTHERWISE DISTRIBUTED. IT IS NOT LICENSED FOR USE ON A
NETWORK OR OTHER SHARED DEVICES.  NETWORKABLE LICENSES ARE
AVAILABLE.  PLEASE CONTACT BRAINSTORM AT 1.801.229.1337 FOR MORE
INFORMATION.

This agreement (the “Agreement”) is made between BrainStorm,
Inc., (“BSI”) and the recipient party (“Licensee”). The terms and
conditions of this Agreement are intended by the parties as a
final expression of their agreement with respect to the subject
matter hereof and may not be contradicted by evidence of any
prior or contemporaneous agreement unless such agreement is
signed by both parties. In the absence of such an agreement, this
Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive statement
of the terms and conditions and no extrinsic evidence whatsoever
may be introduced in any judicial proceeding which may involve
the Agreement. This Agreement may not be modified except by a
writing executed by both parties hereto.


SECTION 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

The provisions of this Section 1 shall apply to any and all
Software, as defined below.

1.1 Software. For the purpose of this Agreement, the licensed
computer software program(s) downloaded and/or installed and the
supporting documentation for such will be referred to as the
“Software.”

1.2 Restrictions. BSI reserves any rights not expressly granted
to Licensee and retains title and full ownership rights under the
copyright laws of the United States or any other jurisdiction or
under any federal, state, or foreign laws. BSI is not obligated
to provide and Licensee acquires no right of any kind with
respect to any source code for the Software. Licensee agrees that
it has no right whatsoever to modify the Software or any portion
thereof in any manner. Licensee shall not, nor permit any third
party to reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble or otherwise
reduce the Software to any other humanly perceivable form, and
may not modify, adapt, rent, lease, loan or create derivative
works based upon the Software or any part thereof.

1.3 Export Law Assurances. Licensee shall not export or
re-export, or allow the export or re-export of the Software or
any copy, portion or direct product of the foregoing, in
violation of any export laws, restrictions, national security
controls or regulations of the United States or other applicable
foreign agency or authority.
 
1.4 Limitation of Remedies and Damages. IN NO EVENT WILL BSI, ITS
SUBSIDIARIES OR ANY OF THE LICENSORS, DIRECTORS, OFFICERS,
EMPLOYEES OR AFFILIATES OF ANY OF THE FOREGOING BE LIABLE TO
LICENSEE UNDER ANY CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY OR
OTHER LEGAL OR EQUITABLE THEORY FOR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL,
INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR SPECIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER (INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS PROFITS,
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION AND THE
LIKE), WHETHER FORESEEABLE OR UNFORESEEABLE, OR FOR COST OF
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS, TECHNOLOGY OR
SERVICES,REGARDLESS OF THE BASIS OF THE CLAIM AND EVEN IF BSI OR
A BSI REPRESENTATIVE HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE. BSI’S CUMULATIVE LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES FOR ANY CAUSE
WHATSOEVER, AND REGARDLESS OF THE FORM OF THE ACTION, WILL BE
LIMITED TO NO GREATER THAN THE AMOUNT OF MONEY PAID TO BSI FOR
THE SOFTWARE THAT CAUSED THE DAMAGES. NO ACTION MAY BE BROUGHT
AGAINST BSI LATER THAN ONE YEAR FROM THE TERMINATION OF THIS
AGREEMENT.

1.5 Nondisclosure. “Confidential Information” shall be defined to
include Software, source code, object code, documentation and any
proprietary tools, proprietary knowledge or proprietary
methodologies disclosed by BSI to Licensee under or relating to
this Agreement. Licensee shall observe complete confidentiality
with respect to the Confidential Information, and shall use its
best efforts and take all reasonable steps to protect the
Confidential Information from any use, reproduction, publication,
disclosure, or distribution except as specifically authorized by
this Agreement. Licensee shall promptly notify BSI of any known
unauthorized use or disclosure of the Confidential Information
and will cooperate with BSI in any litigation brought by BSI
against third parties to protect its proprietary rights.

1.6 Assignment. Licensee may not assign or transfer its rights
and obligations under this Agreement without prior written
approval by BSI and any purported assignment or transfer without
BSI’s consent shall be null and void.

1.7 Injunctive Relief. Licensee hereby expressly agrees that BSI,
in addition to any other rights or remedies which BSI may
possess, shall be entitled to injunctive and other equitable
relief without having to post bond or other security to prevent a
material breach or continuing material breach of this Agreement.

1.8 Software Supplied to the Government. The Software is a
“commercial item,” “commercial computer software” and/or
“commercial computer software documentation.” Consistent with
DFAR section 227.7202 and FAR section 12.212, any use,
modification, reproduction, release, performance, display,
disclosure or distribution of the Software by the U.S. government
shall be governed solely by the terms of this Agreement and shall
be prohibited except to the extent expressly permitted herein.

1.9 Survival. Sections 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.7, 1.9, 1.10, 1.11
and 1.12 shall survive termination of this Agreement for any
reason whatsoever.

1.10 Warranties. THE LIMITED WARRANTIES AS DESCRIBED IN SECTION
2.3 OF THIS AGREEMENT ARE THE ONLY WARRANTIES PROVIDED BY BSI AND
ITS LICENSORS, WHO EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ALL OTHER WARRANTIES,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE WITH REGARD TO THE SOFTWARE AND ACCOMPANYING WRITTEN
MATERIALS.

1.11 Term and Termination. This Agreement is effective for the
term of the license grant unless sooner terminated, either
through mutual agreement by the parties or by Licensee’s material
breach of the Agreement; provided, however, Licensee shall have
ten (10) days from written notice to cure any such breach if
curable. Upon any termination Licensee must immediately destroy
the Software and all accompanying written materials and all
copies thereof (including copies stored in computer memory) and
shall so certify to BSI in writing.

1.12 General. This Agreement will be construed under the laws of
the State of Utah, except for that body of law dealing with
conflicts of law and the U.N. Convention of Contracts for the
Sale of International Goods, which shall not apply. In the event
there is a dispute concerning the subject matter of this
Agreement, the proper venue shall be the County of Utah, State of
Utah, United States of America. Each party hereby waives
opposition to jurisdiction in such court. Service of process can
be done in accordance with the governing law of the Agreement.
Performance of any obligation required by a party hereunder may
be waived only by a written waiver signed by the other party,
which waiver shall be effective only with respect to the specific
obligation described therein. If any provision of this Agreement
shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be contrary
to law, that provision will be enforced to the maximum extent
permissible, and the remaining provisions of this Agreement will
remain in full force and effect.


SECTION 2. “FULL” LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

The provisions of this Section 2 shall apply to Software licensed
with no time limits.

2.1 LICENSE. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement and upon Licensee’s full payment of the applicable
fees, the Software shall be licensed, not sold, to Licensee by
BSI. The “License” granted hereunder shall be perpetual,
non-exclusive, and non-sublicensable, and is defined as
Licensee’s right to:

(a) For the number of copies licensed, Licensee may Use one (1)
copy of the Software. “Use” shall mean Licensee may install, use,
access, run, or otherwise interact with the Software in
accordance with the applicable documentation and the license
grant specified by BSI. The Software may not be installed,
accessed, displayed, run, shared, or used concurrently on or from
different computers, including a workstation, terminal, or other
digital electronic devise.

(b) For the number of copies licensed, Licensee may make one copy
(in machine-readable form only) of each copy of the Software
licensed hereunder solely for backup or disaster recovery
purposes. However, Licensee must reproduce each such copy without
modification, including all copyright and other proprietary
notices that are on the originalcopy.

2.2 Maintenance and support. BSI shall provide the Software to
you electronically, either pre-loaded or on media in
machine-readable form. This license does not grant you any right
to any enhancement or update to the Software. Enhancements and
updates, if available, may be obtained by you at BSI's then
current standard pricing, terms and conditions. This Agreement
does not grant you any rights to receive Support from BSI with
respect to the Software. Support, if available, must be purchased
separately and will be governed by a separate agreement.

2.3 Limited Warranty. BSI warrants that it or its licensors
retain(s) all intellectual property rights in the Software and
any accompanying written materials provided by BSI, including but
not limited to copyright, and that it has the legal right to
grant Licensee the License granted under this Agreement.  BSI
also warrants for a period of thirty (30) days from the delivery
date of the Software that (i) the media provided by BSI, if any,
on which the Software is recorded will be free from material
defects in materials and workmanship under normal use, and (ii)
the operation of the Software, as provided by BSI, will
substantially conform to BSI’s published documentation for the
Software. In the event Licensee notifies BSI during the warranty
period that the Software does not meet these standards, BSI
shall, at its sole option and expense, either replace the media,
refund the purchase price, or repair or replace the Software as
Licensee’s sole and exclusive remedy.
 
THIS LIMITED WARRANTY IS THE ONLY WARRANTY PROVIDED BY BSI WITH
RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE LICENSED UNDER THIS SECTION 2, AND BSI
EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
